/sourceware/ftp/anonftp/pub/cygwin/release

# "+" in first column means assume OK without checking

ftp://mirror.cpsc.ucalgary.ca/mirror/cygwin.com/;Alberta;Canada;erikSMACKcpsc.ucalgary.ca
http://mirror.cpsc.ucalgary.ca/mirror/cygwin.com/;Alberta;Canada;erikSMACKcpsc.ucalgary.ca
ftp://mirrors.rcn.net/pub/sourceware/cygwin/;Virginia;North America;coneillSMACKoneill.net
http://mirrors.rcn.net/pub/sourceware/cygwin/;Virginia;North America;coneillSMACKoneill.net
ftp://ftp.sunsite.utk.edu/pub/cygwin/;Tennessee;North America
ftp://ftp.nas.nasa.gov/mirrors/cygwin.com/pub/cygwin/;California;North America;asteinSMACKmail.arc.nasa.gov
http://www.online-mirror.org/cygwin/;California;North America
ftp://csociety-ftp.ecn.purdue.edu/pub/cygwin/;Indiana;North America;ftpSMACKcsociety.purdue.edu
http://csociety-ftp.ecn.purdue.edu/pub/cygwin/;Indiana;North America;ftpSMACKcsociety.purdue.edu
ftp://mirror.mcs.anl.gov/pub/cygwin.com/;Illinois;North America;navarroSMACKmcs.anl.gov
http://mirror.mcs.anl.gov/cygwin/;Illinois;North America;navarroSMACKmcs.anl.gov
http://ftp.lug.udel.edu/pub/cygwin;Delaware;North America;seitzSMACKbsd-unix.net
ftp://ftp.lug.udel.edu/pub/cygwin;Delaware;North America;seitzSMACKbsd-unix.net
ftp://videl.ics.hawaii.edu/mirrors/cygwin/;Hawaii;Pacific;warrenSMACKtogami.com
ftp://mirrors.umbc.edu/pub/cygwin/;Maryland;North America;randySMACKumbc.edu
ftp://ftp.cise.ufl.edu/pub/mirrors/cygwin/;Florida;North America;mirrorSMACKcise.ufl.edu
http://sigunix.cwru.edu/pub/cygwin/ftp;Cleveland;North America;todSMACKpo.cwru.edu
ftp://sigunix.cwru.edu/pub/cygwin/ftp;Cleveland;North America;todSMACKpo.cwru.edu
rsync://sigunix.cwru.edu/cygwin-ftp;Cleveland;North America;todSMACKpo.cwru.edu
http://mirrors.xmission.com/cygwin;Utah;North America;pashdownSMACKxmission.com
ftp://mirrors.xmission.com/cygwin;Utah;North America;pashdownSMACKxmission.com
rsync://mirrors.xmission.com/cygwin;Utah;North America;pashdownSMACKxmission.com
http://mirrors.theonlinerecordstore.com/cygwin;Houston;North America;mitchSMACKtheonlinerecordstore.com
ftp://mirrors.kernel.org/sources.redhat.com/cygwin;Palo Alto;North America;ftpadminSMACKkernel.org
http://mirrors.kernel.org/sources.redhat.com/cygwin;Palo Alto;North America;ftpadminSMACKkernel.org
rsync://mirrors.kernel.org/sources.redhat.com/cygwin;Palo Alto;North America;ftpadminSMACKkernel.org
http://www.binarycode.org/cygwin/;Texas;North America;stephan.jauSMACKapandrews.com
http://cygwin.get-software.com/;Maryland;North America;webmasterSMACKget-software.com
http://cygwin.mirrors.pair.com/;Pennsylvania;North America;sigmaSMACKsmx.pair.com
ftp://cygwin.mirrors.pair.com/;Pennsylvania;North America;sigmaSMACKsmx.pair.com
http://cygwin.thehostedbox.com/;Texas;North America;cygwinSMACKthehostedbox.com
ftp://sources-redhat.mirror.redwire.net/pub/sources.redhat.com/cygwin/;San Diego;North America;mirrorSMACKredwire.net
http://sources-redhat.mirror.redwire.net/cygwin/;San Diego;North America;mirrorSMACKredwire.net

ftp://ftp.unicamp.br/pub/gnu/=EXTRA=/cygnus/cygwin/;Brazil;South America
ftp://ftp.matrix.com.br/pub/cygwin;Brazil;South America;thiagoSMACKmatrix.com.br
http://cygwin.matrix.com.br/;Brazil;South America;thiagoSMACKmatrix.com.br
http://www.softaplic.com.br/pub/sourceware/cygwin/;Brazil;South America;edesioSMACKieee.org

ftp://ftp.iitm.ac.in/cygwin;India;Asia;sriramSMACKiitm.ac.in
http://ftp.iitm.ac.in/cygwin;India;Asia;sriramSMACKiitm.ac.in
ftp://cygwin.csie.ntu.edu.tw/pub/cygwin/;Taiwan;Asia;piaipSMACKcsie.ntu.edu.tw
ftp://ftp.chg.ru/pub/sourceware/cygwin/;Russia;Asia;dimaSMACKchg.ru
ftp://ftp.nnov.net/pub/mirrors/sources.redhat.com/cygwin/;Russia;Asia;a.molchanovSMACKtranstelecom-nn.ru
ftp://ftp.u-aizu.ac.jp/pub/gnu/gnu-win32/;Japan;Asia
ftp://ftp.nctu.edu.tw/Windows/cygwin/;Taiwan;Asia;ykchenSMACKcoda.NCTU.edu.tw
+ftp://mirror.aarnet.edu.au/pub/cygwin/;Australia;Australia
+ftp://mirror.aarnet.edu.au/pub/cygwin/;Australia;Australia
http://planetmirror.com/pub/sourceware/cygwin/;Australia;Australia
ftp://planetmirror.com/pub/sourceware/cygwin/;Australia;Australia
http://mirror.pacific.net.au/linux/cygwin/;Australia;Australia
ftp://mirror.pacific.net.au/linux/cygwin/;Australia;Australia
ftp://ring.aist.go.jp/archives/pc/gnu-win32/;Japan;Asia
ftp://ring.asahi-net.or.jp/archives/pc/gnu-win32/;Japan;Asia
ftp://ring.astem.or.jp/archives/pc/gnu-win32/;Japan;Asia
ftp://ring.crl.go.jp/archives/pc/gnu-win32/;Japan;Asia
ftp://ring.exp.fujixerox.co.jp/archives/pc/gnu-win32/;Japan;Asia
ftp://ring.ip-kyoto.ad.jp/archives/pc/gnu-win32/;Japan;Asia
ftp://ring.jah.ne.jp/pub/pc/gnu-win32/;Japan;Asia
ftp://ring.so-net.ne.jp/archives/pc/gnu-win32/;Japan;Asia
ftp://sysg.kek.jp/cygnus/cygwin/;Japan;Asia
ftp://ftp.kaist.ac.kr/pub/cygwin;Korea;Asia;netjSMACKsparcs.kaist.ac.kr
rsync://ftp.kaist.ac.kr/cygwin;Korea;Asia;netjSMACKsparcs.kaist.ac.kr
ftp://ftp.kr.freebsd.org/pub/cygwin;Korea;Asia;adminSMACKkr.freebsd.org
ftp://linux.sarang.net/mirror/development/compiler/cygwin/;Korea;Asia;redhandsSMACKlinux.sarang.net
http://www.carfield.com.hk/mirror/sources.redhat.com/cygwin/;Hong Kong;Asia;carfieldSMACKprogrammer.net
ftp://ftp.carfield.com.hk/sources.redhat.com/cygwin/;Hong Kong;Asia;carfieldSMACKprogrammer.net
ftp://ftp.gnupilgrims.org/pub/cygwin/;Hong Kong;Asia;hingwahSMACKgnupilgrims.org
http://cygwin.soa.co.nz;New Zealand;New Zealand;odysseusSMACKsoa.co.nz
http://beowulf.smu.edu.sg/cygwin/;Singapore;Asia;marcleeSMACKsmu.edu.sg
ftp://mirror.averse.net/pub/cygwin;Singapore;Asia;mirror-maintainerSMACKmirror.averse.net
http://mirror.averse.net/cygwin;Singapore;Asia;mirror-maintainerSMACKmirror.averse.net
rsync://mirror.averse.net/cygwin;Singapore;Asia;mirror-maintainerSMACKmirror.averse.net
http://kambing.vlsm.org/DLL/cygwin/;Indonesia;Asia;rmsSMACKui.edu

ftp://ludique.u-bourgogne.fr/pub/mirror/cygwin/;France;Europe
http://ludique.u-bourgogne.fr/pub/mirror/cygwin/;France;Europe
ftp://ftp.vthd-net.com/pub/software/cygwin/;France;Europe;Nicolas.SayerSMACKinria.fr
ftp://ftp.mirror.ac.uk/sites/sources.redhat.com/pub/cygwin/;UK;Europe
ftp://ftp.plig.net/pub/cygwin/;UK;Europe;keetSMACKplig.net
ftp://ftp.ccp14.dl.ac.uk/ccp14/ftp-mirror/programming/cygwin/pub/cygwin/;UK;Europe
http://Yggdrasil.immu.uni-heidelberg.de/cygwin/;Germany;Europe;flaigSMACKsanctacaris.net
http://linux.rz.ruhr-uni-bochum.de/download/cygwin/;Germany;Europe;linux-supportSMACKruhr-uni-bochum.de
ftp://linux.rz.ruhr-uni-bochum.de/cygwin/;Germany;Europe;linux-supportSMACKruhr-uni-bochum.de
ftp://ftp.uni-kl.de/pub/windows/cygwin;Germany;Europe;tsieversSMACKrhrk.uni-kl.de
http://ftp.uni-kl.de/pub/windows/cygwin;Germany;Europe;tsieversSMACKrhrk.uni-kl.de
ftp://ftp.gwdg.de/pub/linux/sources.redhat.com/cygwin;Germany;Europe;emoenkeSMACKgwdg.de
http://ftp.gwdg.de/pub/linux/sources.redhat.com/cygwin;Germany;Europe;emoenkeSMACKgwdg.de
rsync://ftp.gwdg.de/pub/linux/sources.redhat.com/cygwin;Germany;Europe;emoenkeSMACKgwdg.de
ftp://ftp.inf.tu-dresden.de/software/windows/cygwin32;Germany;Europe
http://ftp.inf.tu-dresden.de/software/windows/cygwin32/;Germany;Europe
rsync://ftp.inf.tu-dresden.de/cygwin;Germany;Europe
http://programming.ccp14.ac.uk/ftp-mirror/programming/cygwin/pub/cygwin/;UK;Europe
ftp://ftp.uni-erlangen.de/pub/pc/gnuwin32/cygwin/mirrors/cygnus/;Germany;Europe
ftp://ftp-stud.fht-esslingen.de/pub/Mirrors/sources.redhat.com/cygwin/;Germany;Europe;adrianSMACKlisas.de
http://ftp-stud.fht-esslingen.de/pub/Mirrors/sources.redhat.com/cygwin/;Germany;Europe;adrianSMACKlisas.de
ftp://ftp.funet.fi/pub/mirrors/cygwin.com/pub/cygwin/;Finland;Europe
ftp://ftp.ntua.gr/pub/pc/cygwin/;Greece;Europe
ftp://ftp.rediris.es/mirror/cygwin;Spain;Europe
ftp://ftp.sunet.se/pub/lang/cygwin/;Sweden;Europe
ftp://gd.tuwien.ac.at/gnu/cygwin/;Austria;Europe
ftp://ftp.univie.ac.at/packages/cygwin;Austria;Europe;ftp-admin.zidSMACKunivie.ac.at
http://ftp.univie.ac.at/packages/cygwin/;Austria;Europe;ftp-admin.zidSMACKunivie.ac.at
ftp://sunsite.dk/mirrors/cygwin/;Denmark;Europe
http://mirrors.sunsite.dk/cygwin/;Denmark;Europe
ftp://sunsite.cnlab-switch.ch/mirror/cygwin/;Switzerland;Europe
ftp://sunsite.icm.edu.pl/pub/cygnus/cygwin/;Poland;Europe
ftp://sunsite.ms.mff.cuni.cz/MIRRORS/sources.redhat.com/pub/cygwin/;Czech Republic;Europe
ftp://ftp.fit.vutbr.cz/pub/systems/cygwin/;Czech Republic;Europe;jitrSMACKcentrum.cz
ftp://sunsite.org.uk/Mirrors/sourceware.cygnus.com/pub/cygwin/;UK;Europe
http://sunsite.org.uk/Mirrors/sourceware.cygnus.com/pub/cygwin/;UK;Europe
http://ftp.eq.uc.pt/software/pc/prog/cygwin/;Portugal;Europe;nunoSMACKeq.uc.pt
ftp://ftp.eq.uc.pt/pub/software/pc/prog/cygwin/;Portugal;Europe;nunoSMACKeq.uc.pt
ftp://ftp.di.fct.unl.pt/pub/languages/cygwin/;Portugal;Europe;paSMACKdi.fct.unl.pt
http://ftp.di.fct.unl.pt/pub/languages/cygwin/;Portugal;Europe;paSMACKdi.fct.unl.pt
ftp://ftp.tuke.sk/pub/cygwin/;Slovakia;Europe;Peter.MannSMACKtuke.sk
http://ftp.tuke.sk/pub/cygwin/;Slovakia;Europe;Peter.MannSMACKtuke.sk
ftp://ftp.easynet.be/cygwin/;Belgium;Europe;claude.iyi.doganSMACKbe.easynet.net
ftp://ftp.skynet.be/mirror/cygwin/;Belgium;Europe;driesSMACKops.skynet.be
http://cygwin.dp.ua/pub/mirrors/cygwin/;Ukraine;Europe;miziSMACKalkar.net
ftp://cygwin.dp.ua/pub/mirrors/cygwin/;Ukraine;Europe;miziSMACKalkar.net
ftp://ftp.linux.kiev.ua/pub/cygwin/;Ukraine;Europe;mishaSMACKrattler.kiev.ua
ftp://ftp.iasi.roedu.net/pub/mirrors/sources.redhat.com/pub/cygwin/;Romania;Europe;diabloSMACKiasi.roedu.net
http://gnu.kookel.org/ftp/cygwin/;Netherlands;Europe;Vincent.JaussaudSMACKkelkoo.net
ftp://gnu.kookel.org/pub/cygwin/;Netherlands;Europe;Vincent.JaussaudSMACKkelkoo.net

ftp://ftp.is.co.za/mirrors/cygwin;South Africa;South Africa;twadeSMACKis.co.za
