{\rtf1\ansi\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f2\fnil\fcharset0 Courier New;}
{\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Arial;}
{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Times New Roman;}
}
{\colortbl;}{\stylesheet{\s1 Heading 1;}{\s2 Heading 2;}{\s3 Heading 3;}{\s4 Heading 4;}{\s5 Heading 5;}{\s6 Heading 6;}{\s7 Heading 7;}{\s8 Heading 8;}{\s9 Heading 9;}}
\deflang1024\notabind\facingp\hyphauto1\widowctrl
\sectd\plain\pgwsxn11905\pghsxn16837\marglsxn1440\margrsxn1440\margtsxn1440\margbsxn1920\headery0\footery0\pgndec\titlepg{\headerf\pard\sl-240\sb770\sa430\plain\tqc\tx4512\tqr\tx9025 {}\tab {}\tab {}\par}{\footerf\pard\sl-240\sb770\sa910\plain\tqc\tx4512\tqr\tx9025 {}\tab {}\tab {\i\fs20 \chpgn }\par}{\headerl\pard\sl-240\sb770\sa430\plain\tqc\tx4512\tqr\tx9025 {}\tab {}\tab {\i\fs20 Cygwin/X Frequently Asked Questions}\par}{\footerl\pard\sl-240\sb770\sa910\plain\tqc\tx4512\tqr\tx9025 {}\tab {}\tab {\i\fs20 \chpgn }\par}{\headerr\pard\sl-240\sb770\sa430\plain\tqc\tx4512\tqr\tx9025 {}\tab {}\tab {\i\fs20 Cygwin/X Frequently Asked Questions}\par}{\footerr\pard\sl-240\sb770\sa910\plain\tqc\tx4512\tqr\tx9025 {}\tab {}\tab {\i\fs20 \chpgn }\par}\pard\sb373\sl647\qc {\*\bkmkstart ID_cygwin_45_xfree_45_faq}{\*\bkmkend ID_cygwin_45_xfree_45_faq}\b\fs49 Cygwin/X Frequently Asked Questions\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb216\sl449\qc \fs34 Harold L Hunt, II\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb259\s2\sl449 {\*\bkmkstart ID_qanda}{\*\bkmkend ID_qanda}Questions and Answers\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb173\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_general}{\*\bkmkend ID_general}\fs20 1. General Information\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li480\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_q_45_what_45_is_45_cygwin_45_xfree86}{\*\bkmkend ID_q_45_what_45_is_45_cygwin_45_xfree86}1.1. \b0 What is Cygwin/X?\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb50\li480\sl260 Cygwin/X is a port of XFree86 to Cygwin; Cygwin provides a UNIX-like API on the Win32 platform. At the time of writing, supported Win32 platforms are Windows 95, Windows 98, Windows Me, Windows NT 4.0, and Windows 2000. Windows CE, Windows 3.1, Windows 3.11, and Windows NT 3.51 are not supported.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li480\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_q_45_what_45_is_45_cygwin}{\*\bkmkend ID_q_45_what_45_is_45_cygwin}\b 1.2. \b0 What is Cygwin?\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb50\li480\sl260 Cygwin tools are, in the words of the Cygwin homepage (http://cygwin.com/), \'93ports of the popular GNU development tools and utilities for Windows 95, 98, and NT. They function by using the Cygwin library which provides a UNIX-like API on top of the Win32 API.\'94 Cygwin provides the compiler (gcc), libraries, headers, and other utilities which build and support the operation of Cygwin/X.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li480\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_q_45_what_45_is_45_x_45_window_45_system}{\*\bkmkend ID_q_45_what_45_is_45_x_45_window_45_system}\b 1.3. \b0 What is the X Window System?\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb50\li480\sl260 [ScheiflerGettys92]\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li480\sl260 The X Window System, or X, is a network-transparent window system. With X, multiple applications can run simultaneously in windows, generating text and graphics in monochrome or color on a bitmap display. Network transparency means that application programs can run on machines scattered through the network.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li480\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_q_45_what_45_is_45_xfree86}{\*\bkmkend ID_q_45_what_45_is_45_xfree86}\b 1.4. \b0 What is XFree86?\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb50\li480\sl260 XFree86, in the words of the XFree86 homepage, is \'93a freely redistributable open-source implementation of the X Window System that runs on UNIX(R) and UNIX-like (like Linux, the BSDs, Mac OS X (aka Darwin) and Solaris x86 series) operating systems and OS/2.\'94\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li480\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_q_45_what_45_is_45_x_45_server}{\*\bkmkend ID_q_45_what_45_is_45_x_45_server}\b 1.5. \b0 What is an X Server?\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb50\li480\sl260 An X Server is a program that provides display and user input services to other programs. In comparison, a file server provides other programs with access to file storage devices. File servers are typically located in a remote location and you use the services of a file server from the machine that you are located at. In contrast, an X Server is typically running on the machine that you are located at; display and user input services may be requested by programs running on your machine, as well as by programs running on remote machines.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li480\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_q_45_what_45_is_45_x_45_client}{\*\bkmkend ID_q_45_what_45_is_45_x_45_client}\b 1.6. \b0 What is an X client?\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb50\li480\sl260 An X client is a program that utilizes the display and user input services provided by an X Server. X clients may run on the same or disparate machine as the X Server that is providing display and user input services.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li480\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_q_45_why_45_port_45_to_45_windows}{\*\bkmkend ID_q_45_why_45_port_45_to_45_windows}\b 1.7. \b0 Why port XFree86 to Microsoft Windows?\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb50\li480\sl260 Porting XFree86 to Microsoft Windows benefits many people and projects in many ways:\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li680\sl260\fi-200 \tx680 \fs16 \'95\tab \fs20 Prior to Cygwin/X only commercial, closed source X Servers were available for Microsoft Windows.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li680\sl260\fi-200 \tx680 \fs16 \'95\tab \fs20 An X Server on Windows may be used to display the output of programs running on remote UNIX machines.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li680\sl260\fi-200 \tx680 \fs16 \'95\tab \fs20 Cygwin/X, in conjunction with Cygwin, provides a complete compatibility layer for compiling and running UNIX applications on Microsoft Windows.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li480\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_q_45_newsgroup}{\*\bkmkend ID_q_45_newsgroup}\b 1.8. \b0 Is there a Cygwin/X newsgroup?\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb50\li480\sl260 No, Cygwin/X does not have a newsgroup; however, we do have a mailing list. See {\field{\*\fldinst   HYPERLINK  \\l ID_q_45_mailing_45_list}{\fldrslt Q: 1.9.}}\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li480\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_q_45_mailing_45_list}{\*\bkmkend ID_q_45_mailing_45_list}\b 1.9. \b0 Is there a Cygwin/X mailing list?\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb50\li480\sl260 Yes, Cygwin/X has a mailing list, namely, cygwin-xfree@cygwin.com. Visit the Cygwin Mailing Lists (http://cygwin.com/lists.html) page to subscribe to cygwin-xfree@cygwin.com as well as to read and search an online archive of the mailing list traffic.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li880\sl234 \b\fs18 Tip: \b0\f1 Post your X-related inquires to cygwin-xfree@cygwin.com only; do not post nor cross post your inquires to the cygwin@cygwin.com mailing list. Cygwin's mailing list is only for Cygwin API related inquires that are not handled by another more-specific list.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_installation}{\*\bkmkend ID_installation}\b\fs20\f0 2. Installation\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li480\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_q_45_windows_45_versions_45_supported}{\*\bkmkend ID_q_45_windows_45_versions_45_supported}2.1. \b0 What versions of Windows does Cygwin/X run on?\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb50\li480\sl260 Cygwin/X supports Windows 95, Windows 98, Windows Me, Windows NT 4.0, and Windows 2000 as of 2001-05-19. Windows XP will be supported when it is officially released.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li480\sl260 \lang1033 Cygwin/X requires Cygwin to compile and run. Cygwin is not, as of 2001-07-10, available on Microsoft Windows CE, therefore Cygwin/X is not currently available on Microsoft Windows CE.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li480\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_q_45_how_45_to_45_install}{\*\bkmkend ID_q_45_how_45_to_45_install}\b\lang1024 2.2. \b0 How is Cygwin/X installed?\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb50\li480\sl260 The Cygwin/X User's Guide (http://xfree86.cygwin.com/docs/ug/cygwin-xfree-ug.html) thoroughly documents the installation process.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li480\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_q_45_which_45_archives}{\*\bkmkend ID_q_45_which_45_archives}\b 2.3. \b0 Which archives do I need to download and install?\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb50\li480\sl260 The Cygwin/X User's Guide (http://xfree86.cygwin.com/docs/ug/cygwin-xfree-ug.html) lists the archives that need to be downloaded and installed.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li480\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_q_45_winzip}{\*\bkmkend ID_q_45_winzip}\b 2.4. \b0 Can I use WinZip to extract Cygwin/X archives?\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb50\li480\sl260 No. WinZip is not aware of Cygwin's symlink handling, nor does WinZip properly handle the end of line characters in Cygwin/X's archives. Extracting Cygwin/X's archives with a utility other than Cygwin's tar, gzip, and bzip2 will likely result in the X Server reporting that it cannot open a font file on startup; the server will shutdown immediately after giving this error.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li480\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_q_45_bunzip2}{\*\bkmkend ID_q_45_bunzip2}\b 2.5. \b0 bunzip2 reports: \'93It is possible that the compressed file(s) have become corrupted.\'94\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb50\li480\sl260 Short answer: the bzip2 files on the server are not corrupt.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li480\sl260 \lang1033 Downloading the Cygwin/X archives using a web browser causes all sorts of problems, as web browsers sometimes attempt to \'93help\'94 you by automatically decompressing downloaded files. However, the automatic decompression is broken in that the decompression process usually fails to remove the \fs18\f2 .bz2\fs20\f0  extension from the decompressed file. You may be able to simply rename the downloaded file, leaving off the \fs18\f2 .bz2\fs20\f0  extension; if that method fails, you will have to redownload the files, by using either a standard ftp client (e.g. \b ftp\b0  including with Cygwin), or by using your web browser and right-clicking the link to each file and choosing \f1 Save Target As...\f0 , \f1 Save Link As...\f0 , or a similarly named command. Choosing \f1 Save Target As...\f0 , \f1 Save Link As...\f0 , or a similarly named command instructs the web browser to save the file directly, without passing the file through any interpretation steps, thus preventing the web browser from automatically decompressing the files.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li480\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_q_45_xmod_46_tgz}{\*\bkmkend ID_q_45_xmod_46_tgz}\b\lang1024 2.6. \b0\fs18\f2 Xinstall.sh\fs20\f0  requests the file \fs18\f2 Xmod.tgz\fs20\f0 , which is not available on the mirror sites.\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb50\li480\sl260 The \fs18\f2 Xinstall.sh\fs20\f0  script determines which files are required for installation by first determing the current operating system. The current operating system name is determined by running \b uname\b0 . For example, the name on Windows 2000 is \fs18\f2 CYGWIN_NT-5.0\fs20\f0 . The file \fs18\f2 Xmod.tgz\fs20\f0  is not required on Cygwin, but the file is required on other platforms. \fs18\f2 Xinstall.sh\fs20\f0  mistakenly requests \fs18\f2 Xmod.tgz\fs20\f0  on Cygwin when \b uname\b0  does not run, or runs but does not return recognizable output. You need to get \b uname\b0  working on your system before you can continue with installation of Cygwin/X. The following are a couple of things to look at when trying to fix \b uname\b0 :\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li840\sl260\fi-360 \tqr\tx790\tx840\tab 1.\tab Run \b uname\b0  from the same Cygwin \b bash\b0  window that you ran \fs18\f2 Xinstall.sh\fs20\f0  in. Does \b uname\b0  return a string that starts with the characters \fs18\f2 CYGWIN\fs20\f0 ? If so, try running \fs18\f2 Xinstall.sh\fs20\f0  using \b sh ./Xinstall.sh\b0 . If not, perhaps you have multiple copies of \fs18\f2 cygwin1.dll\fs20\f0  on your system; see {\field{\*\fldinst   HYPERLINK  \\l ID_q_45_status_45_integer_45_divide_45_by_45_zero}{\fldrslt Q: 6.9.}} for more information.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li840\sl260\fi-360 \tqr\tx790\tx840\tab 2.\tab Run \b uname\b0  from the same Cygwin \b bash\b0  window that you ran \fs18\f2 Xinstall.sh\fs20\f0  in. If \b uname\b0  cannot be found, then run \b cat /etc/setup/installed.db | grep sh-utils\b0  to see if the sh-utils Cygwin package is installed. If no output is returned, then sh-utils is not installed and you must re-run Cygwin's Setup program to install sh-utils. If output is returned, then sh-utils is installed; perhaps try running \fs18\f2 Xinstall.sh\fs20\f0  using \b sh ./Xinstall.sh\b0 .\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_configuration}{\*\bkmkend ID_configuration}\b 3. Configuration\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li480\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_q_45_why_45_no_45_xf86config}{\*\bkmkend ID_q_45_why_45_no_45_xf86config}3.1. \b0 Why isn't there an XF86Config file?\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb50\li480\sl260 Cygwin/X uses an entirely different server executable than XFree86. Cygwin/X queries Windows for configuration information and accesses your hardware in a device independent manner through the Win32 API, whereas the XFree86 server must read detailed information about your hardware from a configuration file.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li480\sl260 \lang1033 Besides that there is limited support for configuration via XF86Config. This includes the path settings for FontPath and RgbPath and the configuration of on U.S. keyboard layouts. For more information see {\field{\*\fldinst   HYPERLINK  \\l ID_q_45_non_45_U_46_S_46__45_keyboard_45_layout}{\fldrslt Q: 4.4.}}\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li480\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_q_45_command_45_line_45_args}{\*\bkmkend ID_q_45_command_45_line_45_args}\b\lang1024 3.2. \b0 What are the command line arguments for XWin.exe?\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb50\li480\sl260 The Cygwin/X User's Guide (http://xfree86.cygwin.com/docs/ug/cygwin-xfree-ug.html) documents the command line arguments for XWin.exe.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li480\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_q_45_display_45_depth_45_ignored}{\*\bkmkend ID_q_45_display_45_depth_45_ignored}\b 3.3. \b0 Why does XWin.exe ignore the display depth that I pass on the command line?\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb50\li480\sl260 When running in windowed mode or GDI-based fullscreen mode, XWin.exe must run the X Server at whatever display depth Windows is currently using; in these cases the display depth passed on the command line is ignored. XWin.exe only uses the display depth parameter when running in a DirectDraw-based fullscreen mode, as DirectDraw allows applications to change the display resolution and depth when running in fullscreen mode.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li480\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_q_45_three_45_button_45_emulation}{\*\bkmkend ID_q_45_three_45_button_45_emulation}\b 3.4. \b0 I have a two button mouse, can I emulate a three button mouse?\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb50\li480\sl260 Yes. Pass the \i\f2 -emulate3buttons timeout_in_milliseconds\i0\f0  parameter to XWin.exe, where \i\f2 timeout_in_milliseconds\i0\f0  is the, optional, maximum number of milliseconds between a button release and opposite button press that will trigger an emulated third button press.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_usage}{\*\bkmkend ID_usage}\b 4. Usage\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li480\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_q_45_aix_45_xkb}{\*\bkmkend ID_q_45_aix_45_xkb}4.1. \b0 Logging into AIX via XDMCP causes the keyboard to function as if \b AltGr\b0  is permanently pressed.\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb50\li480\sl260 [Pavel Rybnicek] The X Keyboard Extension doesn't work with AIX. The X Keyboard Extension is enabled by default, so you must disable it with the \i\f2 -kb\i0\f0  parameter. An example command line follows.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li480\sl260 \b\lang1033\f2 XWin.exe -kb -query \i aix_hostname_or_ip_address\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li480\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_q_45_why_45_twm_45_only_45_wm}{\*\bkmkend ID_q_45_why_45_twm_45_only_45_wm}\i0\lang1024\f0 4.2. \b0 Why is twm the only window manager included with Cygwin/X?\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb50\li480\sl260 twm resides in the XFree86 source tree, therefore it is compiled and released with Cygwin/X automatically. Other window managers are available, but they reside in other source trees and are therefore not released with the core Cygwin/X archives.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li480\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_q_45_what_45_wm_45_available}{\*\bkmkend ID_q_45_what_45_wm_45_available}\b 4.3. \b0 What precompiled window managers are available?\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb50\li480\sl260 XFCE and vtwm are available \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li480\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_q_45_non_45_U_46_S_46__45_keyboard_45_layout}{\*\bkmkend ID_q_45_non_45_U_46_S_46__45_keyboard_45_layout}\b 4.4. \b0 How do I use a non-U.S. keyboard layout?\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb50\li480\sl260  Some keyboard layouts are configured according to the Windows keyboard settings. For these layouts no special change is needed. For all other layouts there is the possibility to configure the layout via a configfile. A sample file can be obtained from here (http://www.tu-chemnitz.de/~goal/xfree/XF86Config.bz2). Unpack the file and copy it to \fs18\f2 /etc/X11/XF86Config\fs20\f0 . \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li480\sl234 \fs18\f2 \sa0\par\fi0\sb0
$ cd /tmp\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
$ wget http://www.tu-chemnitz.de/~goal/xfree/XF86Config.bz2\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
$ bzip2 -d XF86Config.bz2\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
$ cp XF86Config /etc/X11/XF86Config\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li480\sl260 \fs20\f0 \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li480\sl260 \lang1033 The sample configures a german layout. To configure it for your layout, change these lines from the \'93InputDevice\'94 section. \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li480\sl234 \fs18\f2 \sa0\par\fi0\sb0
    Option "XkbRules"   "xfree86"\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
    Option "XkbModel"   "pc105"\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
    Option "XkbLayout"  "\i de\i0 "\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li480\sl260 \fs20\f0 Instead of \'93de\'94 set \'93XkbLayout\'94 to the code which represents your keyboard layout (e.g. Australia = au, Deutschland = de, France = fr, Japan = jp, United Kingdom = uk).\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li480\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_q_45_modmap_45_obtaining}{\*\bkmkend ID_q_45_modmap_45_obtaining}\b\lang1024 4.5. \b0 Where can I find an xmodmap for my non-U.S. keyboard layout?\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb50\li480\sl260 You can try using an xmodmap file for your keyboard layout from a GNU/Linux distribution (e.g. RedHat).\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li480\sl260 Or, you can use \b xkeycaps\b0  to automatically generate a modmap for one of over 208 different layouts. See the xkeycaps home page (http://www.jwz.org/xkeycaps/) to download and for more information.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li480\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_q_45_how_45_modmap_45_and_45_xdmcp}{\*\bkmkend ID_q_45_how_45_modmap_45_and_45_xdmcp}\b 4.6. \b0 How do I get my non-U.S. keyboard modmap to be installed when using xdmcp?\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb50\li480\sl260 See {\field{\*\fldinst   HYPERLINK  \\l ID_q_45_non_45_U_46_S_46__45_keyboard_45_layout}{\fldrslt Q: 4.4.}}\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li480\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_q_45_bash_45_extended_45_chars}{\*\bkmkend ID_q_45_bash_45_extended_45_chars}\b 4.7. \b0 I have configured Cygwin/X for my non-U.S. keyboard layout, but how do I get \b bash\b0  to display accents and/or umlauts?\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb50\li480\sl260 (Heinz Peter Hippenstiel) Add the following lines to \fs18\f2 .inputrc\fs20\f0  in your Cygwin home directory (e.g. \fs18\f2 /home/harold/\fs20\f0 ): \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li480\sl234 \fs18\f2 \sa0\par\fi0\sb0
set meta-flag on\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
set output-meta on # to show 8-bit characters\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
set convert-meta off # to show it as character, not the octal representation\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
# Mapping for German umlauts\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
"\\M-a": "\'e4"\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
"\\M-A": "\'c4"\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
"\\M-o": "\'f6"\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
"\\M-O": "\'d6"\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
"\\M-u": "\'fc"\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
"\\M-U": "\'dc"\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
"\\M-s": "\'df"\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
# (TODO: Mapping for accents?)\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li480\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_q_45_bash_45_8bit}{\*\bkmkend ID_q_45_bash_45_8bit}\b\fs20\f0 4.8. \b0 How do I put \b bash\b0  into \'938 bit\'94 mode?\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb50\li480\sl260 See {\field{\*\fldinst   HYPERLINK  \\l ID_q_45_bash_45_extended_45_chars}{\fldrslt Q: 4.7.}}\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li480\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_q_45_mandrake_45_8_46_1_45_xdmcp}{\*\bkmkend ID_q_45_mandrake_45_8_46_1_45_xdmcp}\b 4.9. \b0 Why doesn't my Linux/UNIX/*NIX/*BSD machine present a login screen when using \i\f2 -query\i0\f0  for XDMCP?\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb50\li480\sl260 [Mika Laitio] For security reasons, XDMCP is not enabled by default on most Linux/UNIX/*NIX/*BSD distributions (RedHat, Mandrake, SuSE, FreeBSD, NetBSD, etc.) by default. You have to manually enable remote logins to your X Display Manager (\b xdm\b0 , \b kdm\b0 , or \b gdm\b0 ). The location of the proper config file is distribution/OS dependent, but a short list of known config file locations is given in {\field{\*\fldinst   HYPERLINK  \\l ID_tbl_45_config_45_files}{\fldrslt Table 1}}. You must change the line: \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li480\sl234 \fs18\f2 \sa0\par\fi0\sb0
[Xdmcp]\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
Enable=false\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li480\sl260 \fs20\f0 to: \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li480\sl234 \fs18\f2 \sa0\par\fi0\sb0
[Xdmcp]\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
Enable=true\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li480\sl260 \fs20\f0 \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li480\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_tbl_45_config_45_files}{\*\bkmkend ID_tbl_45_config_45_files}\b Table 1. Known XDM Configuration File Locations\sa100\keepn\par\trowd\trleft480\trhdr \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\cellx2616\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\cellx4752\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\cellx6888\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\cellx9024 \plain \pard\intbl\sb60\li580\ri100\sl260 \b\fs20 Distribution/OS\sa60\cell \plain \pard\intbl\sb60\li580\ri100\sl260 \b\fs20 Version\sa60\cell \plain \pard\intbl\sb60\li580\ri100\sl260 \b\fs20 Display Manager\sa60\cell \plain \pard\intbl\sb60\li580\ri100\sl260 \b\fs20 Location\sa60\cell \row \trowd\trleft480 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\cellx2616\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\cellx4752\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\cellx6888\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\cellx9024 \plain \pard\intbl\sb60\li580\ri100\sl260 \fs20 Linux Mandrake\sa60\cell \plain \pard\intbl\sb60\li580\ri100\sl260 \fs20 8.1\sa60\cell \plain \pard\intbl\sb60\li580\ri100\sl260 \fs20 kdm\sa60\cell \plain \pard\intbl\sb60\li580\ri100\sl260 \fs20 /usr/share/config/kdm/kdmrc\sa60\cell \row \trowd\trleft480 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\cellx2616\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\cellx4752\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\cellx6888\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\cellx9024 \plain \pard\intbl\sb60\li580\ri100\sl260 \fs20 Debian GNU/Linux\sa60\cell \plain \pard\intbl\sb60\li580\ri100\sl260 \fs20 Unstable\sa60\cell \plain \pard\intbl\sb60\li580\ri100\sl260 \fs20 kdm\sa60\cell \plain \pard\intbl\sb60\li580\ri100\sl260 \fs20 /etc/kde3/kdm/kdmrc\sa60\cell \row \trowd\trleft480 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\cellx2616\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\cellx4752\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\cellx6888\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\cellx9024 \plain \pard\intbl\sb60\li580\ri100\sl260 \fs20 Debian GNU/Linux\sa60\cell \plain \pard\intbl\sb60\li580\ri100\sl260 \fs20 Unstable\sa60\cell \plain \pard\intbl\sb60\li580\ri100\sl260 \fs20 gdm\sa60\cell \plain \pard\intbl\sb60\li580\ri100\sl260 \fs20 /etc/X11/gdm/gdm.conf\sa60\cell \row \pard\plain\sl-1\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li480\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_q_45_solaris_45_fonts}{\*\bkmkend ID_q_45_solaris_45_fonts}\b\fs20 4.10. \b0 Why does Cygwin/X not display the XDM login prompt on Solaris when I try to open an XDMCP session with a remote Solaris machine?\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb50\li480\sl260 See also {\field{\*\fldinst   HYPERLINK  \\l ID_q_45_remote_45_solaris}{\fldrslt Q: 4.11.}} and {\field{\*\fldinst   HYPERLINK  \\l ID_q_45_cde_45_via_45_xdmcp_45_hangs}{\fldrslt Q: 6.16.}}\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li480\sl260 [David Dawson] For whatever reason, certain versions of Solaris need fonts that are not provided by Cygwin/X; the result is that you may see the Solaris background tile and the hourglass cursor, but the XDM login prompt will never appear. The simplest solution is to point Cygwin/X at the font server that is usually running on the Solaris machine. You'll need a command line similar to the following to start your XDMCP session and to connect to the Solaris font server:\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li480\sl260 \b\lang1033\f2 XWin.exe -query \i solaris_hostname_or_ip_address\i0  -fp tcp/\i solaris_hostname_or_ip_address\i0 :7100\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li880\sl234 \fs18\lang1024\f0 Note: \b0\f1 The \i\f2 -fp\i0\f1  parameter is a general X Server parameter, it is not specific to Cygwin/X; therefore, the \i\f2 -fp\i0\f1  is documented in the X Server documentation (http://www.xfree86.org/current/Xserver.1.html). For additional information about fonts, see Fonts in XFree86 (http://www.xfree86.org/current/fonts.html).\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li480\sl260 \fs20\lang1033\f0 The standard port number for a font server is \fs18\f2 7100\fs20\f0 , however, you may need to ask your system administrator what the font server port number is if you cannot connect to a font server on port \fs18\f2 7100\fs20\f0 . It is also possible that your Solaris machine is not running a font server, in which case you will need to consult your Solaris documentation for instructions on how to run a font server.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li480\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_q_45_remote_45_solaris}{\*\bkmkend ID_q_45_remote_45_solaris}\b\lang1024 4.11. \b0 Why does Cygwin/X freeze when I try to open an XDMCP session with a remote Solaris machine?\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb50\li480\sl260 See also {\field{\*\fldinst   HYPERLINK  \\l ID_q_45_solaris_45_fonts}{\fldrslt Q: 4.10.}} and {\field{\*\fldinst   HYPERLINK  \\l ID_q_45_cde_45_via_45_xdmcp_45_hangs}{\fldrslt Q: 6.16.}}\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li480\sl260 Solaris appears to not support certain display bit depths, such as 24 bits per pixel. Change your Windows display bit depth to 8, 16, or 32 and try logging in again. File a complaint with Sun if this issue is important to you, or change your Solaris machines to use XFree86 instead of the Solaris X Window System.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li480\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_q_45_xdmcp_45_info}{\*\bkmkend ID_q_45_xdmcp_45_info}\b 4.12. \b0 Where can I find more information about XDMCP (X Display Manager Protocol).\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb50\li480\sl260 See the Linux XDMCP HOWTO (http://www.linuxdoc.org/HOWTO/XDMCP-HOWTO/) for more information about XDMCP.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_troubleshooting}{\*\bkmkend ID_troubleshooting}\b 5. Troubleshooting\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li480\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_q_45_log_45_file_45_location}{\*\bkmkend ID_q_45_log_45_file_45_location}5.1. \b0 Is there a log file that I can look at for diagnostic information and error messages?\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb50\li480\sl260 Yes. The Cygwin/X log file is located at \fs18\f2 /tmp/XWin.log\fs20\f0 . You will find solutions to the most common error messages in {\field{\*\fldinst   HYPERLINK  \\l ID_errors}{\fldrslt the Section called \i Error and Warning Messages}}.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li480\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_q_45_error_45_message_45_interpretation}{\*\bkmkend ID_q_45_error_45_message_45_interpretation}\b 5.2. \b0 I have a specific error message, what does it mean?\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb50\li480\sl260 See the Error and Warning Messages section for help with specific error messages. Return to this section if you do not find a specific answer for the error message that you have.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li480\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_q_45_error_45_message_45_not_45_listed}{\*\bkmkend ID_q_45_error_45_message_45_not_45_listed}\b 5.3. \b0 I have a specific error message that is not addressed in the Error and Warning Messages section.\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb50\li480\sl260 Search the Cygwin/X mailing list archives (http://cygwin.com/ml/cygwin-xfree/) to see if the error message has already been reported and/or addressed. Report the error message to the Cygwin/X mailing list (cygwin-xfree@cygwin.com), how the error message was caused, and the behavior of the X Server after the error message was generated (exit, freeze, etc.), only if the error message has not been reported, if the circumstances that produced the error message are significantly different from other reports, or if you have additional information regarding the error message to contribute.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li480\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_q_45_but_45_report_45_ignored}{\*\bkmkend ID_q_45_but_45_report_45_ignored}\b 5.4. \b0 My bug report the Cygwin/X mailing list was ignored. What do I do now?\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb50\li480\sl260 Some bug reports are deliberately ignored by project members if the bug in question was recently dealt with; did you search the mailing list archives (project-url-ml-search;) for a solution to your problem before submitting your bug report? Some bug reports are ignored if they do not contain sufficient information to understand the situation that produces the bug; did your bug report have enough information? Some bug reports are missed or forgotten, thus some valid bug reports do not receive a reply; simply resubmit such bug reports that have not received a response within 7 days of submission.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li480\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_q_45_ssh_45_no_45_x11forwarding}{\*\bkmkend ID_q_45_ssh_45_no_45_x11forwarding}\b 5.5. \b0 X11Forwarding does not work with openssh\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb50\li480\sl260  Before establishing the ssh connection the xserver must be started and the environment variable \i\f2 DISPLAY\i0\f0  must be set for ssh. \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li480\sl234 \fs18\f2 \sa0\par\fi0\sb0
$ DISPLAY=\i localhost:0.0\i0 \sa0\par\fi0\sb0
$ export DISPLAY\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
$ ssh -X \i remotehost\i0 \sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li480\sl260 \fs20\f0 or \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li480\sl234 \fs18\f2 \sa0\par\fi0\sb0
$ DISPLAY=\i localhost:0.0\i0  ssh -X \i remotehost\i0 \sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li480\sl260 \fs20\f0 \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li480\sl260  Make sure you're not starting ssh with the parameter \i\f2 -x\i0\f0 . This disables {\field{\*\fldinst   HYPERLINK  \\l ID_gloss_45_x11forwarding}{\fldrslt \i X11Forwarding}}. The correct parameter is \i\f2 -X\i0\f0  (uppercase). \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li480\sl260  Check that X11Forwarding is not disabled in the openssh client configuration. The configfiles are by default \fs18\f2 ~/.ssh/config\fs20\f0  and \fs18\f2 /etc/ssh/ssh_config\fs20\f0 . The file in the home directory overrides settings in the global one. The configfile is split into various sections starting with \'93Host \i\f2 wildcard\i0\f0 \'94. The section applies to all hosts where \i\f2 wildcard\i0\f0  matches the hostname. If this section contains an entry \'93ForwardX11 no\'94 then X11Forwarding is disabled. To enable it change the entry to \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li480\sl234 \fs18\f2 ForwardX11 yes\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li480\sl260 \fs20\f0 \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li480\sl260  Check that X11Forwarding is not disabled in the ssh server configuration. The configfile is by default \fs18\f2 /etc/ssh/ssh_config\fs20\f0 . If there is an entry \'93X11Forwarding no\'94 then X11Forwarding is disabled. If you have write access to the config file then change it to \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li480\sl234 \fs18\f2 X11Forwarding yes\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li480\sl260 \fs20\f0  Otherwise ask your you admin to change this for you. \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li480\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_q_45_xkb_45_not_45_working}{\*\bkmkend ID_q_45_xkb_45_not_45_working}\b 5.6. \b0 Loading XKB keymaps fails\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb50\li480\sl260  First check if you are able to change the server to another layout via XKB. The german layout will be good for testing: \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li480\sl234 \fs18\f2 setxkbmap de -model pc105\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li480\sl260 \fs20\f0 This worked if pressing "Shift" and "8" produces "(" instead of "*". If it worked then you can skip the next paragraph. \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li480\sl260 \lang1033 There is currently a problem with the /tmp directory mounted in textmode. You can change the setting to binmode with: \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li480\sl234 \fs18\f2 mount -b "$(cygpath -m /tmp)" /tmp\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li480\sl260 \fs20\f0 If this fails with an errormessage stating unsufficient rights, try \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li480\sl234 \fs18\f2 mount -b -u "$(cygpath -m /tmp)" /tmp\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li480\sl260 \fs20\f0 Not all keyboard layouts are tested very well and some contain errors or do not work at all. To test if the compiling of your layout works start \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li480\sl234 \fs18\f2 xkbcomp -w 3 -xkm -m \i de\i0  /etc/X11/xkb/keymap/xfree86 localhost:0.0\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li480\sl260 \fs20\f0 (replace the "de" with your layout code). This may produce warnings, but must not produce errors. If there are errors then please report them to the mailinglist.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li480\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_alt_45_gr_45_win_45_xp_45_powertoys}{\*\bkmkend ID_alt_45_gr_45_win_45_xp_45_powertoys}\b\lang1024 5.7. \b0 I have Windows XP with Powertoys installed and AltGr does not work. What can I do?\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb50\li480\sl260 Unfortunately there is not much you can do. Somehow Powertoys on Windows XP causes the algorithm for AltGr detection to fail. So the easy solution is to disable Powertoys.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li480\sl260 \lang1033 The second (and hard) solution is to debug the keyboardhandling code and determine how the two messages which are sent by Windows when AltGr is pressed can be distinguished from a combined Alt and Control press.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li480\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_poor_45_performance}{\*\bkmkend ID_poor_45_performance}\b\lang1024 5.8. \b0 XWin has very poor performance. What's the reason?\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb50\li480\sl260 Most likely you have installed some kind of personal firewall, VPN software or any other software that modifies the TCP/IP stack of Windows. Especially Webwasher and some other filtering software are known to slow down the network traffic.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li480\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_disable_45_terminate_45_server}{\*\bkmkend ID_disable_45_terminate_45_server}\b 5.9. \b0 The option -nounixkill has no effect. How can i prevent the server shutdown an Ctrl-Alt-BackSpace?\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb50\li480\sl260 There is a keybinding to Ctrl-Alt-BackSpace which is named TerminateServer. Remove this binding and Ctrl-Alt-BackSpace will have no effect. \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li480\sl234 \fs18\f2 xmodmap -e "keycode 22 = BackSpace"\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li480\sl260 \fs20\f0 \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li480\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_window_45_auto_45_focus}{\*\bkmkend ID_window_45_auto_45_focus}\b 5.10. \b0 Is there a Focus-Follows-Mouse feature (Auto-Focus)?\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb50\li480\sl260 This is a setting of the windowmanager used. The default windowmanager twm has no such feature. But with fvwm2 this can be achieved with the this configuration entry: \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li480\sl234 \fs18\f2 Focus FocusFollowsMouse\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li480\sl260 \fs20\f0 Other windowmanagers (eg. windowmaker) have similar features too.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li480\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_microsoft_45_services_45_for_45_unix}{\*\bkmkend ID_microsoft_45_services_45_for_45_unix}\b 5.11. \b0 I have Microsoft Services for Unix installed and can't type anything. Help me!!!\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb50\li480\sl260 Microsoft Services for Unix set some environment variables which points Cygwin/X to outdated or not existing files. These variables are \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li480\sl234 \fs18\f2 XAPPLRESDIR\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
XCMSDB\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
XKEYSYMDB\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
XNLSPATH\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li480\sl260 \fs20\f0 To have Cygwin/X work correctly you have to unset at least \i\f2 XKEYSYMDB\i0\f0 . \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li480\sl260 \lang1033 Reported by Juan Medina, Pavel Rozenboim\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_errors}{\*\bkmkend ID_errors}\b\lang1024 6. Error and Warning Messages\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li480\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_q_45_trackpoint}{\*\bkmkend ID_q_45_trackpoint}6.1. \b0 IBM ThinkPad's with a TrackPoint mouse doesn't allow simulated mouse wheel scrolling.\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb50\li480\sl260 [Gerald S. Williams] The TrackPoint driver tries to send scroll up/down messages to the default scrollbar in a window. Cygwin/X does not use Windows scrollbars for X Client windows, so we must configure the TrackPoint driver to send standard WM_MOUSEWHEEL messages to the Cygwin/X window. This can be done by editing the TrackPoint configuration file that can be found either in \fs18\f2 %SYSTEM_ROOT%\\System32\\tp4table.dat\fs20\f0  or \fs18\f2 %SYSTEM_ROOT%\\System32\\tp4scrol.dat\fs20\f0 . Add the following to the \'93Pass 0 rules\'94section: \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li480\sl234 \fs18\f2 \sa0\par\fi0\sb0
; X Windows\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
*,*,XWin.exe,*,*,cygwin/xfree86,WheelStd,0,9\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li480\sl260 \fs20\f0 \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li480\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_q_45_tasklist_45_programs_45_slow}{\*\bkmkend ID_q_45_tasklist_45_programs_45_slow}\b 6.2. \b0 Cygwin/X is extremely slow, especially when using XDMCP to connect to remote machines.\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb50\li480\sl260 [Dr. Edward Wornar] Certain programs that are installed by various drivers and software packages can consume an incredible amount of system resources and processing time. One known example of such a program is \fs18\f2 ATI2evxx.exe\fs20\f0 , a utility installed with some ATI Technologies graphics card drivers. Answers That Work (http://www.answersthatwork.com/) has information on \fs18\f2 ATI2evxx.exe\fs20\f0  on their Task List Programs - A (http://www.answersthatwork.com/Tasklist_pages/tasklist_a.htm) page. You may want to try disabling, one-by-one, \fs18\f2 ATI2evxx.exe\fs20\f0  and other such programs until you find the program that is causing the slowdown.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li480\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_q_45_cygncurses5_46_dll_45_not_45_found}{\*\bkmkend ID_q_45_cygncurses5_46_dll_45_not_45_found}\b 6.3. \b0 A required DLL file: cygncurses5.dll cannot be found\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb50\li480\sl260 Upgrading from ncurses-5.2-5 to ncurses-5.2-7 requires following some special instructions (http://cygwin.com/ml/cygwin-announce/2001/msg00124.html); failure to follow those instructions will cause the above error message when running various Cygwin and Cygwin/X programs.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li480\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_q_45_owner_45_tmp_45__46_X11_45_unix}{\*\bkmkend ID_q_45_owner_45_tmp_45__46_X11_45_unix}\b 6.4. \b0 _XSERVTransmkdir: Owner of /tmp/.X11-unix should be set to root\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb50\li480\sl260 This warning message can be ignored; it does not cause any known problems.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li480\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_q_45_error_45_security_45_policy}{\*\bkmkend ID_q_45_error_45_security_45_policy}\b 6.5. \b0 error opening security policy file /usr/X11R6/lib/X11/xserver/SecurityPolicy\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb50\li480\sl260 From http://xfree86.org/, \'93This is a only a warning message, and is mostly harmless. If your server is failing to startup, this is not the reason. Check the other messages.\'94\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li480\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_q_45_error_45_font_45_eof}{\*\bkmkend ID_q_45_error_45_font_45_eof}\b 6.6. \b0 Fatal server error: could not open default font 'fixed'\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb50\li480\sl260 This error results from the end of line characters on the font files being incorrect. There are two known ways of installing the fonts that causes the end of line characters to be incorrect:\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li840\sl260\fi-360 \tqr\tx790\tx840\tab 1.\tab Using \fs18\f2 Xinstall.sh\fs20\f0  to install Cygwin/X on a text-mode Cygwin mount rather than binary-mode mount. You will need to change your default Cygwin mount mode to binary-mode and rerun the \fs18\f2 Xinstall.sh\fs20\f0  script to reinstall Cygwin/X. You can change your Cygwin default mounts to binary-mode by rerunning Cygwin's \fs18\f2 setup.exe\fs20\f0  and setting \f1 Default Text File Type\f0  to UNIX; this works even if there are no packages that need to be installed or updated by \fs18\f2 setup.exe\fs20\f0 . See the Cygwin User's Guide section on Text and Binary modes (http://cygwin.com/cygwin-ug-net/using-textbinary.html) for more information on Cygwin mount modes.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li840\sl260\fi-360 \tqr\tx790\tx840\tab 2.\tab Manually installing the Cygwin/X archives using a non-Cygwin aware archival extraction program, such as WinZip. You should be installing Cygwin/X with the \fs18\f2 Xinstall.sh\fs20\f0  script, rather than manually extracting the Cygwin/X archives. See {\field{\*\fldinst   HYPERLINK  \\l ID_q_45_winzip}{\fldrslt Q: 2.4.}} for more information regarding WinZip.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li480\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_q_45_removing_45_font_45_path_45_element}{\*\bkmkend ID_q_45_removing_45_font_45_path_45_element}\b 6.7. \b0 Could not init font path element /usr/X11R6/lib/X11/fonts/\i\f2 *\i0\f0 /, removing from list!\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb50\li480\sl260 See {\field{\*\fldinst   HYPERLINK  \\l ID_q_45_error_45_font_45_eof}{\fldrslt Q: 6.6.}} and {\field{\*\fldinst   HYPERLINK  \\l ID_q_45_winzip}{\fldrslt Q: 2.4.}}\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li480\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_q_45_procedure_45_entry_45_point_45_missing}{\*\bkmkend ID_q_45_procedure_45_entry_45_point_45_missing}\b 6.8. \b0 The procedure entry point _check_for_executable could not be located\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb50\li480\sl260 Programs that you are attempting to use were compiled against a newer version of Cygwin than is currently on your system. Run Cygwin's setup program to update your installation to the latest version.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li480\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_q_45_status_45_integer_45_divide_45_by_45_zero}{\*\bkmkend ID_q_45_status_45_integer_45_divide_45_by_45_zero}\b 6.9. \b0 Exception: STATUS_INTEGER_DIVIDE_BY_ZERO\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb50\li480\sl260 You are most likely running your primary Windows display at a bit depth that requires palettized color, most likely 8 bits per pixel, in conjunction with a release of Cygwin/X that does not support palettized color modes. Palettized color support was added to Cygwin/X on 2001-06-05. You may either install a newer version of Cygwin/X that supports palettized color, or you may run your primary Windows display at 15, 16, 24, or 32 bits per pixel.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li480\sl260 See {\field{\*\fldinst   HYPERLINK  \\l ID_q_45_status_45_access_45_violation}{\fldrslt Q: 6.10.}}\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li480\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_q_45_status_45_access_45_violation}{\*\bkmkend ID_q_45_status_45_access_45_violation}\b 6.10. \b0 Exception: STATUS_ACCESS_VIOLATION\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb50\li480\sl260 \fs18\f2 cygwin1.dll\fs20\f0  uses a shared memory section amongst all loaded copies of \fs18\f2 cygwin1.dll\fs20\f0 ; unfortunately, the layout and usage of the shared memory section changes between versions of \fs18\f2 cygwin1.dll\fs20\f0 . Loading two different versions of \fs18\f2 cygwin1.dll\fs20\f0  will cause the shared memory section to become corrupted, which almost always results in an Exception: STATUS_ACCESS_VIOLATION. You must search your filesystem(s) and remove all copies of \fs18\f2 cygwin1.dll\fs20\f0  except the copy in \fs18\f2 /bin\fs20\f0 . You must remove the different versions of \fs18\f2 cygwin1.dll\fs20\f0  even if they are not in your path, as programs that depend on \fs18\f2 cygwin1.dll\fs20\f0  attempt to load the file from the local directory before searching other paths; thus, it is rather easy, and common, for multiple versions of \fs18\f2 cygwin1.dll\fs20\f0  to become loaded at the same time if they exist on a particular system.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li480\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_q_45_xdmcp_45_no_45_valid_45_address}{\*\bkmkend ID_q_45_xdmcp_45_no_45_valid_45_address}\b 6.11. \b0 XDMCP fatal error: Session declined No valid address\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb50\li480\sl260 Cygwin/X is sometimes unable to determine which local network interface's address should be reported to the {\field{\*\fldinst   HYPERLINK  \\l ID_gloss_45_xdmcp}{\fldrslt \i XDMCP}} server; in these cases you need to pass \i\f2 -from\i0\f0  \i\f2 local_host_name_or_ip_address\i0\f0  to XWin.exe to specify which interface address to report.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li480\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_q_45_error_45_max_45_clients}{\*\bkmkend ID_q_45_error_45_max_45_clients}\b 6.12. \b0 Xlib: connection to "\i\f2 local_host_name_or_ip_address\i0\f0 :0.0" refused by server Xlib: Maximum number of clients reached\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb50\li480\sl260 Cygwin/X queries getdtablesize () for the maximum number of client connections allowed; by default Cygwin returns 32 from getdtablesize (). Cygwin/X Server Test Series (http://xfree86.cygwin.com/devel/server/) release Test44 (http://xfree86.cygwin.com/devel/server/changelog.html), released on 2001-08-15, changes the maximum number of clients from 32 to 1024 by passing the square of getdtablesize () to setdtablesize ().\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li480\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_q_45_xio_45_fatal_45_io_45_error_45_104}{\*\bkmkend ID_q_45_xio_45_fatal_45_io_45_error_45_104}\b 6.13. \b0 XIO: fatal IO error 104 (Connection reset by peer) on X server "127.0.0.1:0.0"\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb50\li480\sl260 See {\field{\*\fldinst   HYPERLINK  \\l ID_q_45_error_45_max_45_clients}{\fldrslt Q: 6.12.}}\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li480\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_q_45_cannot_45_open_45_display}{\*\bkmkend ID_q_45_cannot_45_open_45_display}\b 6.14. \b0 Cannot Open Display: 127.0.0.1:0.0\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb50\li480\sl260 Certain classes of software, such as that used for {\field{\*\fldinst   HYPERLINK  \\l ID_gloss_45_vpn}{\fldrslt \i Virtual Private Networking}} and {\field{\*\fldinst   HYPERLINK  \\l ID_gloss_45_firewall}{\fldrslt \i fire-walling}} may cause the IP address 127.0.0.1, or other local adapter addresses, to be redirected, to become inoperable in some way, or to be operated in a manner that violates the defined operation of IP address.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li480\sl260 \lang1033 As a potential remedy, try removing all instances of such software; this may not always fix the problem though, as some software may leave artifacts even after uninstallation is completed. The only way to be sure that you have not found a Cygwin/X bug is to install Windows on a freshly formatted hard drive, followed by Cygwin and Cygwin/X, and finally add your other software one application at a time until Cygwin/X stops working.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li480\sl260 Some products that have been reported to cause problems: \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li880\sl234 \b\fs18 Note: \b0\f1 These products may not cause problems in all configurations. However, the Cygwin/X project has neither the time, ability, nor resources to help you correctly configure your third-party software.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li480\sl260 \fs20\f0  \hyphpar0\par\pard\li680\sl260\fi-200 \tx680 \fs16 \'95\tab \fs20 Aventail Connect\hyphpar0\par\pard\li680\sl260\fi-200 \tx680 \fs16 \'95\tab \fs20 Zonealarm PC Firewall from Zonelab\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li480\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_q_45_error_45_negative_45_sized_45_edge}{\*\bkmkend ID_q_45_error_45_negative_45_sized_45_edge}\b\lang1024 6.15. \b0 Fatal server error: negative sized edge?\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb50\li480\sl260 A compilation bug, due to the -ansi build flag, in the Type1 font library caused this bug to be present in all Cygwin/X \fs18\f2 XWin.exe\fs20\f0  builds between 2001-05-06 and 2001-08-03. The -ansi build flag was removed on 2001-08-03 and subsequent builds do not contain the bug. All Server Test Series releases from Test23 to Test41 contain the bug. Test42 was the first recent Server Test Series release that did not contain the bug. Remedy the bug by either installing the most recent Server Test Series release or by updating your entire Cygwin/X installation.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li480\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_q_45_cde_45_via_45_xdmcp_45_hangs}{\*\bkmkend ID_q_45_cde_45_via_45_xdmcp_45_hangs}\b 6.16. \b0 Login to CDE on Solaris via XDMCP hangs Cygwin/X.\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb50\li480\sl260 See also {\field{\*\fldinst   HYPERLINK  \\l ID_q_45_solaris_45_fonts}{\fldrslt Q: 4.10.}} and {\field{\*\fldinst   HYPERLINK  \\l ID_q_45_remote_45_solaris}{\fldrslt Q: 4.11.}}\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li480\sl260 Install the recommended set of patches (http://www.sun.com/bigadmin/patches/indexRec.html) for your version of Solaris.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li480\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_q_45_error_45_env_45_space}{\*\bkmkend ID_q_45_error_45_env_45_space}\b 6.17. \b0 Out of environment space\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb50\li480\sl260 Increase your Windows environment space by following the instructions provided by Microsoft (http://support.microsoft.com/support/kb/articles/Q230/2/05.ASP).\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li480\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_q_45_too_45_many_45_parameters}{\*\bkmkend ID_q_45_too_45_many_45_parameters}\b 6.18. \b0 Too many parameters\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb50\li480\sl260 See {\field{\*\fldinst   HYPERLINK  \\l ID_q_45_error_45_env_45_space}{\fldrslt Q: 6.17.}}\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_porting}{\*\bkmkend ID_porting}\b 7. Porting Software\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li480\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_q_45_ported_45_software_45_list}{\*\bkmkend ID_q_45_ported_45_software_45_list}7.1. \b0 Is there a list of software that has been ported to Cygwin/X?\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb50\li480\sl260 Yes, see the Cygwin/X - Ported Software (http://xfree86.cygwin.com/ported-software.html) page.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li480\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_q_45_how_45_to_45_port}{\*\bkmkend ID_q_45_how_45_to_45_port}\b 7.2. \b0 How do I start porting software to Cygwin/X?\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb50\li480\sl260 Cygwin/X provides a software interface that is very similar to the software interface provided by GNU/Linux and other UNIX systems. Most software packages will compile on Cygwin/X without any changes at all. To begin with, try to compile a given software package following that package's compilation instructions for GNU/Linux.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li480\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_q_45_common_45_porting_45_problems}{\*\bkmkend ID_q_45_common_45_porting_45_problems}\b 7.3. \b0 Are there common problems encountered when porting software to Cygwin/X?\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb50\li480\sl260 One common problem encountered when porting software to Cygwin/X is due to Cygwin's inability to distinguish between files with the same name but different capitalization (e.g. XvMC.h and xvmc.h), which is due to a Windows' limitation.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li480\sl260 \b Example 1. Include Problems\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li480\sl260 \b0\lang1033 This example is based off an error that actually occurred in the XFree86 source code tree in \fs18\f2 xc/programs/Xserver/Xext/xvmc.c\fs20\f0 . \fs18\f2 xvmc.c\fs20\f0  included \fs18\f2 XvMC.h\fs20\f0 , as shown below:\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li480\sl234 \fs18\lang1024\f2 \sa0\par\fi0\sb0
#include "XvMC.h"\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li480\sl260 \fs20\lang1033\f0 The intention was to include the file \fs18\f2 xc/include/extensions/XvMC.h\fs20\f0 . Unfortunately, there was a file named \fs18\f2 xc/programs/Xserver/Xext/xvmc.h\fs20\f0  that ended up getting included instead of the desired file, because the precompiler searched the local directory, \fs18\f2 xc/programs/Xserver/Xext/\fs20\f0 , before searching the rest of the include path. Cygwin can't distinguish between \fs18\f2 XvMC.h\fs20\f0  and \fs18\f2 xvmc.h\fs20\f0 , so \fs18\f2 xvmc.h\fs20\f0  ended up being included in \fs18\f2 xvmc.c\fs20\f0 . The build process on Cygwin broke because the contents of \fs18\f2 XvMC.h\fs20\f0  were entirely different than the contents of \fs18\f2 xvmc.h\fs20\f0 .\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li480\sl260 The solution was to change the include to specifically reference the desired header:\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li480\sl234 \fs18\lang1024\f2 \sa0\par\fi0\sb0
#include "../../../include/extensions/XvMC.h"\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_contributing}{\*\bkmkend ID_contributing}\b\fs20\f0 8. Contributing\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li480\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_q_45_instructions_45_for_45_contributing}{\*\bkmkend ID_q_45_instructions_45_for_45_contributing}8.1. \b0 Are there step-by-step instructions for contributing to Cygwin/X?\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb50\li480\sl260 Yes. The Cygwin/X Contributor's Guide (http://xfree86.cygwin.com/docs/cg/cygwin-xfree-cg.html) has step-by-step instructions for obtaining the source, building the source, building debug versions of the source, and even cross-compiling under Linux.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li480\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_q_45_get_45_project_45_source_45_code}{\*\bkmkend ID_q_45_get_45_project_45_source_45_code}\b 8.2. \b0 Where do I get the Cygwin/X source code?\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb50\li480\sl260 Cygwin/X source code is contained in, and distributed with, the XFree86 source tree. Periodically the Cygwin/X project releases a snapshot of the XFree86 source code that is known to compile. Read-only CVS access to the XFree86 source tree (http://xfree86.org/cvs/) is also available from the XFree86 project.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li480\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_q_45_need_45_to_45_be_45_member}{\*\bkmkend ID_q_45_need_45_to_45_be_45_member}\b 8.3. \b0 Do I need to be a member of XFree86 to contribute to Cygwin/X?\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb50\li480\sl260 No. Cygwin/X only needs one developer that is a member of the XFree86 organization; as of 2001-05-22 we have three members. XFree86 members have very few privileges over non-members; specifically, XFree86 members do not generally have CVS write access, so you aren't really missing out on anything if you aren't an XFree86 member.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li480\sl260 \lang1033 Exceptional Cygwin/X contributers may occasionally be nominated for membership to XFree86.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li480\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_q_45_editors}{\*\bkmkend ID_q_45_editors}\b\lang1024 8.4. \b0 Are there editors for Windows that understand and preserve UNIX end of line characters?\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb50\li480\sl260 Yes. Emacs and XEmacs are available for Windows; they both understand and preserve UNIX end of line characters.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li480\sl260 \lang1033 See the GNU Mirror List (http://www.gnu.org/order/ftp.html) for a mirror near you; Emacs is located under \fs18\f2 gnu/pub/windows/emacs/\fs20\f0 .\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li480\sl260 See the XEmacs Download Page (http://xemacs.org/Download/index.html) to download XEmacs for Windows.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li480\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_q_45_contrib_45_diff}{\*\bkmkend ID_q_45_contrib_45_diff}\b\lang1024 8.5. \b0 How should I generate patches for Cygwin/X?\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb50\li480\sl260 Only submit patches that have UNIX end of line characters. See {\field{\*\fldinst   HYPERLINK  \\l ID_q_45_editors}{\fldrslt Q: 8.4.}} for information on editors for Windows that are aware of UNIX end of line characters.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li480\sl260 \lang1033 Generally it is better for us if you generate your patches against the XFree86 CVS tree. For example, run \b cvs -z4 diff -U3 hw/xwin/\b0  from \fs18\f2 xc/programs/Xserver/\fs20\f0  to generate a diff file for all the modified files in \fs18\f2 hw/xwin/\fs20\f0 . CVS is smart enough to only generate diffs for files that are in the CVS repository; for example, CVS diff will not create diffs for Emacs temporary files.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li480\sl260 In the case that you have modified a single file, create the diff with \b cvs -z4 diff -U3 \i\f2 file_name\b0\i0\f0 .\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li480\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_q_45_where_45_to_45_submit_45_patches}{\*\bkmkend ID_q_45_where_45_to_45_submit_45_patches}\b\lang1024 8.6. \b0 Where do I submit patches for Cygwin/X?\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb50\li480\sl260 Submit patches for Cygwin/X to the cygwin-xfree@cygwin.com mailing list.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li480\sl260 \lang1033 See {\field{\*\fldinst   HYPERLINK  \\l ID_q_45_contrib_45_diff}{\fldrslt Q: 8.5.}} for more information on generating patches.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li480\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_q_45_where_45_is_45_x_45_server_45_source}{\*\bkmkend ID_q_45_where_45_is_45_x_45_server_45_source}\b\lang1024 8.7. \b0 Where does Cygwin/X's X Server source reside in the XFree86 source tree?\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb50\li480\sl260 Cygwin/X's X Server source code resides primarily in \fs18\f2 xc/programs/Xserver/hw/xwin/\fs20\f0 .\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li480\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_q_45_project_45_compilation_45_configuration}{\*\bkmkend ID_q_45_project_45_compilation_45_configuration}\b 8.8. \b0 How is compilation of Cygwin/X configured?\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb50\li480\sl260 XFree86 uses platform independent Imakefiles to generate platform dependent Makefiles. Cygwin/X specific parameters used to compile the Makefiles are contained in \fs18\f2 /xc/config/cf/cygwin.cf\fs20\f0 .\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li480\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_q_45_how_45_to_45_compile}{\*\bkmkend ID_q_45_how_45_to_45_compile}\b 8.9. \b0 How do I compile Cygwin/X after I have unpacked a source snapshot or after I have checked out the XFree86 CVS tree?\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li480\sl260 \b Note: \b0 Capitalization is important in the following command.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li480\sl260 \lang1033 Open a Cygwin window, change to the \fs18\f2 xc/\fs20\f0  directory, and run \b make World\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li480\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_q_45_confined_45_recompile}{\*\bkmkend ID_q_45_confined_45_recompile}\lang1024 8.10. \b0 How do I recompile just XWin.exe if I have confined my changes to \fs18\f2 xc/programs/Xserver/hw/xwin/\fs20\f0 ?\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li480\sl260 \b Note: \b0 Capitalization is important in the following commands.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li480\sl260 \lang1033 Change the current directory to \fs18\f2 xc/programs/Xserver/hw/xwin/\fs20\f0 .\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li480\sl260 Run \b make Makefile\b0  if you have modified \fs18\f2 hw/xwin/Imakefile\fs20\f0 .\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li480\sl260 Run \b make depend\b0  if you have modified the list of included files in any of the source files in \fs18\f2 hw/xwin/\fs20\f0 .\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li480\sl260 Change the current directory to \fs18\f2 xc/programs/Xserver/\fs20\f0 .\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li480\sl260 Run \b make XWin.exe\b0  to rebuild the server executable.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li480\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_q_45_why_45_no_45_autoconf}{\*\bkmkend ID_q_45_why_45_no_45_autoconf}\b\lang1024 8.11. \b0 Why doesn't XFree86 use GNU's \b autoconf\b0 ?\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb50\li480\sl260 XFree86 does not use \b autoconf\b0  because \b autoconf\b0  was not available when the X Window System project was started in 1984.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li480\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_q_45_which_45_compilers_45_supported}{\*\bkmkend ID_q_45_which_45_compilers_45_supported}\b 8.12. \b0 What compiler does Cygwin/X use, and which compilers are supported?\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb50\li480\sl260 Cygwin/X uses the gcc compiler from the Free Software Foundation. Cygwin/X source code is mostly ANSI C compliant, but we cannot guarantee that Cygwin/X will compile with any other compiler, nor can we afford to support compilers other than gcc.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li480\sl260 \lang1033 See the GCC Home Page (http://gcc.gnu.org) for more information on gcc.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li480\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_q_45_cross_45_compiling}{\*\bkmkend ID_q_45_cross_45_compiling}\b\lang1024 8.13. \b0 Is cross-compiling from a non-Cygwin platform supported?\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb50\li480\sl260 Cross-compiling from a non-Cygwin platform is not for beginners; as such, you should only be cross-compiling if you know what you are doing. You may submit simple questions regarding cross-compiling to the Cygwin/X mailing, but do not always expect an answer, as we may not currently have a subscriber that is actively cross-compiling.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li480\sl260 \lang1033 See CrossGCC Frequently Asked Questions (http://www.objsw.com/CrossGCC/) for more information on cross compiling with gcc.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li480\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_q_45_help_45_installing_45_docbook}{\*\bkmkend ID_q_45_help_45_installing_45_docbook}\b\lang1024 8.14. \b0 Where can I get help for installing DocBook on Cygwin?\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb50\li480\sl260 See SGML for Windows NT: Setting up a free SGML editing and publishing system on Windows NT/Cygwin (http://ourworld.compuserve.com/homepages/hoenicka_markus/cygbook1.html) by Markus Hoenicka.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li480\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_q_45_build_45_debug}{\*\bkmkend ID_q_45_build_45_debug}\b 8.15. \b0 How can I build a debug version of the XFree86 CVS tree?\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb50\li480\sl260 Simple: instead of running \b\f2 make World\b0\f0  from \fs18\f2 xc/\fs20\f0 , run \b\f2 config/util/makeg.sh World\b0\f0  from \fs18\f2 xc/\fs20\f0  instead. \b makeg.sh\b0  is a script that wraps \b make\b0  and creates a debug build for you, without you having to change any configuration files. Essentially, \b makeg.sh\b0  passes \i\f2 -g\i0\f0  to \b gcc\b0  for every object and executable target.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_license_45_ptc}{\*\bkmkend ID_license_45_ptc}\b 9. Licenses, Patents, Trademarks, and Copyrights\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li480\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_q_45_what_45_licenses_45_apply}{\*\bkmkend ID_q_45_what_45_licenses_45_apply}9.1. \b0 What licenses apply to Cygwin/X source code?\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb50\li480\sl260 Cygwin/X proper isn't covered by a single license, as Cygwin/X is made up of two parts that are covered by distinct licenses: Cygwin and XFree86.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li480\sl260 \lang1033 See {\field{\*\fldinst   HYPERLINK  \\l ID_q_45_license_45_xfree}{\fldrslt Q: 9.2.}} and {\field{\*\fldinst   HYPERLINK  \\l ID_q_45_license_45_cygwin}{\fldrslt Q: 9.3.}} for more information regarding the licenses that apply to Cygwin/X.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li480\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_q_45_license_45_xfree}{\*\bkmkend ID_q_45_license_45_xfree}\b\lang1024 9.2. \b0 What licenses apply to the XFree86 source code?\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb50\li480\sl260 XFree86 source code is generally licensed under an X11 style license (http://www.x.org/terms.htm), which is certified by the Free Software Foundation (http://www.fsf.org/philosophy/license-list.html#GPLCompatibleLicenses) as compatible with the GNU GPL.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li480\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_q_45_license_45_cygwin}{\*\bkmkend ID_q_45_license_45_cygwin}\b 9.3. \b0 What license applies to Cygwin source code?\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb50\li480\sl260 Cygwin source code is licensed under a modified version of the GNU GPL. Cygwin's license modification specifically allows third-party software under an open source license to be linked with Cygwin without requiring that the source code for the third-party software be distributed under the terms of the GNU GPL. Cygwin's developers went to great trouble to obtain this modification and should be thanked for doing so, as without it the modification, Cygwin/X linking to Cygwin would be the subject of endless discussion.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li480\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_q_45_copyright_45_cygwin_45_xfree86}{\*\bkmkend ID_q_45_copyright_45_cygwin_45_xfree86}\b 9.4. \b0 Whom holds the copyright on the Cygwin/X source code?\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb50\li480\sl260 Cygwin/X proper doesn't have a single copyright holder, as Cygwin/X is made up of two parts, namely Cygwin and XFree86; each part follows a different scheme in regards to whom will hold the copyright on source code.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li480\sl260 \lang1033 See {\field{\*\fldinst   HYPERLINK  \\l ID_q_45_copyright_45_xfree}{\fldrslt Q: 9.5.}} and {\field{\*\fldinst   HYPERLINK  \\l ID_q_45_copyright_45_cygwin}{\fldrslt Q: 9.6.}} for more information regarding whom holds the copyright on Cygwin/X source code.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li480\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_q_45_copyright_45_xfree}{\*\bkmkend ID_q_45_copyright_45_xfree}\b\lang1024 9.5. \b0 Whom holds the copyright on the XFree86 source code?\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb50\li480\sl260 Each source code file in XFree86 typically has its own license and copyright statement. Therefore, there is not a general rule for determining whom holds the copyright on a particular XFree86 source file, as each author is free to assign the copyright to someone else, to some group, or to keep the copyright themselves. You must inspect the source code file in question to determine whom holds the copyright for that file.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li480\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_q_45_copyright_45_cygwin}{\*\bkmkend ID_q_45_copyright_45_cygwin}\b 9.6. \b0 Whom holds the copyright on the Cygwin source code?\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb50\li480\sl260 RedHat (http://redhat.com/) owns the copyright on the Cygwin source code. RedHat requires that copyright be assigned to RedHat for non-trivial changes to Cygwin. You must fill out a copyright transfer form if you are going to contribute substantial changes to Cygwin.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li480\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_q_45_motif_45_license}{\*\bkmkend ID_q_45_motif_45_license}\b 9.7. \b0 What license applies to Motif?\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb50\li480\sl260 Motif is a closed source product produced by The Open Group (http://www.opengroup.org/). However, The Open Group released Open Motif (http://www.opengroup.org/openmotif/) on 2000-05-15 under a public license, The Open Group Public License (http://www.opengroup.org/openmotif/license), that allows Open Motif to be distributed with and used on Open Source platforms. As of 2001-07-10, Cygwin/X does not qualify as a platform that Open Motif can be distributed with and used on. However, the Open Motif FAQ (http://www.opengroup.org/openmotif/faq.html) states, "[...] we hope to be able to make a distribution under a license complying with the Open Source guidelines sometime in the future. For now this is as close as to Open Source as we could get."\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li480\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_q_45_trademark_45_xwin}{\*\bkmkend ID_q_45_trademark_45_xwin}\b 9.8. \b0 Isn't \'93XWin\'94 trademarked by StarNet Communications?\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb50\li480\sl260 No. A quick search at the United States Patent and Trademark Office (http://www.uspto.gov/) for \'93XWin\'94 turns up one dead record and one live record. The live record is for a logo belonging to a rock crusher manufacturer based out of Belgium. Neither trademark affects Cygwin/X, as the dead record is no longer enforceable, while the live record is in an unrelated and distinct industry; there cannot be confusion between rock crushers and computer programs.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb216\s3\sl374 {\*\bkmkstart ID_biblio}{\*\bkmkend ID_biblio}\b\fs28 Bibliography\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb259\s2\sl449 \fs34 Books\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb173\li480\sl260\fi-480 \b0\fs20 [ScheiflerGettys92]\~Robert W. Scheifler, James Gettys, Jim Flowers, and David Rosenthal, 1992, 1-55558-088-2, Butterworth-Heinemann, \i X Window System: The Complete Reference to Xlib, X Protocol, ICCCM, and XLFD\i0 .\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li480\sl260\fi-480 [Richter99]\~Jeffrey Richter, 1999, 1-57231-996-8, Microsoft Press, \i Programming Applications for Microsoft Windows: Mastering the critical building blocks of 32-bit and 64-bit Windows-based applications\i0 .\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li480\sl260\fi-480 [Petzold99]\~Charles Petzold, 1999, 1-57231-995-X, Microsoft Press, \i Programming Windows: The definitive guide to the Win32 API\i0 .\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li480\sl260\fi-480 [McKay99]\~Everett N. McKay, 1999, 0-7356-0586-6, Microsoft Press, \i Developing User Interfaces for Microsoft Windows: Practical and effective methods for improving the user experience\i0 .\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li480\sl260\fi-480 [JonesOhlund99]\~Anthony Jones and Jim Ohlund, 1999, 0-7356-0560-2, Microsoft Press, \i Network Programming for Microsoft Windows: Clear, practical guide to Microsoft's networking APIs\i0 .\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li480\sl260\fi-480 [Yuan01]\~Feng Yuan, 2001, 0-13-086985-6, Prentice Hall PTR, \i Windows Graphics Programming: Win32 GDI and DirectDraw\i0 .\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li480\sl260\fi-480 [CohenWoodring98]\~Aaron Cohen and Mike Woodring, 1998, 1-56592-296-4, O'Reilly & Associates, Inc., \i Win32 Multithreaded Programming: Building Thread-Safe Applications\i0 .\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li480\sl260\fi-480 [CameronRosenblattRaymond96]\~Debra Cameron, Bill Rosenblatt, and Eric Raymond, 1996, 1991, 1-56592-152-6, O'Reilly & Associates, Inc., \i Learning GNU Emacs: UNIX Text Processing\i0 .\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li480\sl260\fi-480 [Lewine91]\~Edited by Dale Dougherty, Donald A. Lewine, 1991, 0-937175-73-0, O'Reilly & Associates, Inc., \i POSIX Programmer's Guide: Writing Portable UNIX Programs\i0 .\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li480\sl260\fi-480 [KernighanRitchie88]\~Brian W. Kernighan and Dennis M. Ritchie, 1988, 1978, 0-13-110370-9, Prentice Hall PTR, \i The C Programming Language: ANSI C\i0 .\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb311\s1\sl539 {\*\bkmkstart ID_glossary}{\*\bkmkend ID_glossary}\b\fs41 Glossary\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb311\s1\sl539 F\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb207\s3\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_gloss_45_firewall}{\*\bkmkend ID_gloss_45_firewall}\fs20 firewall\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li400\sl260 \b0\lang1033 Firewall software attempts to protect an internal network from intrusions originating from an external network.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb311\s1\sl539 \b\fs41\lang1024 V\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb207\s3\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_gloss_45_vpn}{\*\bkmkend ID_gloss_45_vpn}\fs20 Virtual Private Network\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li400\sl260 \b0\lang1033 Virtual Private Networks are encrypted tunnels through which private data can be safely transmitted over a private network (e.g. the Internet).\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb311\s1\sl539 \b\fs41\lang1024 X\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb207\s3\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_gloss_45_xdm}{\*\bkmkend ID_gloss_45_xdm}\fs20 X Display Manager\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li400\sl260 \b0\lang1033 An X Display Manager presents a graphical login screen to X users. Often an XDM will allow the user to select a desktop environment or window manager to be for their login session. Some X Display Managers are xdm, gdm (Gnome Display Manager), and kdm (KDE Display Manager).\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb150\s3\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_gloss_45_xdmcp}{\*\bkmkend ID_gloss_45_xdmcp}\b\lang1024 X Display Manager Control Protocol\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li400\sl260 \b0\lang1033 XDMCP allows XDM to process logins for users remote to the machine that XDM is running on; login sessions will be run on the machine running XDM. For example, at a university you may use XDMCP to login to an X session running on an engineering department computer from your dorm room.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li400\sl260 \i\lang1024 See Also: {\field{\*\fldinst   HYPERLINK  \\l ID_gloss_45_xdm}{\fldrslt \i0 X Display Manager}}\i0 .\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb150\s3\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_gloss_45_x11forwarding}{\*\bkmkend ID_gloss_45_x11forwarding}\b OpenSSH X11 Forwarding\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li400\sl260 \b0\lang1033 Some SSH programs like OpenSSH provide a feature where in addition to the normal text channel opened between the local and the remote host another encrypted channel is opened for the communication between the X11 client and the X11 server. The SSH server will act as proxy-server for the X11 clients and will forward all communication to the X11 server.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb311\s1\sl539 {\*\bkmkstart ID_gfdl}{\*\bkmkend ID_gfdl}\b\fs41\lang1024 A. GNU Free Documentation License\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb207\sl260 \b0\fs20\lang1033 Version 1.1, March 2000\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li200\ri200\sl234 \fs18\lang1024 Copyright (C) 2000 Free Software Foundation, Inc. 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111-1307 USA Everyone is permitted to copy and distribute verbatim copies of this license document, but changing it is not allowed.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb259\s2\sl449 {\*\bkmkstart ID_gfdl_45_preamble}{\*\bkmkend ID_gfdl_45_preamble}\b\fs34 0. PREAMBLE\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb173\sl260 \b0\fs20\lang1033 The purpose of this License is to make a manual, textbook, or other written document "free" in the sense of freedom: to assure everyone the effective freedom to copy and redistribute it, with or without modifying it, either commercially or noncommercially. Secondarily, this License preserves for the author and publisher a way to get credit for their work, while not being considered responsible for modifications made by others.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\sl260 This License is a kind of "copyleft", which means that derivative works of the document must themselves be free in the same sense. It complements the GNU General Public License, which is a copyleft license designed for free software.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\sl260 We have designed this License in order to use it for manuals for free software, because free software needs free documentation: a free program should come with manuals providing the same freedoms that the software does. But this License is not limited to software manuals; it can be used for any textual work, regardless of subject matter or whether it is published as a printed book. We recommend this License principally for works whose purpose is instruction or reference.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb259\s2\sl449 {\*\bkmkstart ID_gfdl_45_applicability_45_and_45_definitions}{\*\bkmkend ID_gfdl_45_applicability_45_and_45_definitions}\b\fs34\lang1024 1. APPLICABILITY AND DEFINITIONS\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb173\sl260 \b0\fs20\lang1033 This License applies to any manual or other work that contains a notice placed by the copyright holder saying it can be distributed under the terms of this License. The "Document", below, refers to any such manual or work. Any member of the public is a licensee, and is addressed as "you".\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\sl260 A "Modified Version" of the Document means any work containing the Document or a portion of it, either copied verbatim, or with modifications and/or translated into another language.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\sl260 A "Secondary Section" is a named appendix or a front-matter section of the Document that deals exclusively with the relationship of the publishers or authors of the Document to the Document's overall subject (or to related matters) and contains nothing that could fall directly within that overall subject. (For example, if the Document is in part a textbook of mathematics, a Secondary Section may not explain any mathematics.) The relationship could be a matter of historical connection with the subject or with related matters, or of legal, commercial, philosophical, ethical or political position regarding them.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\sl260 The "Invariant Sections" are certain Secondary Sections whose titles are designated, as being those of Invariant Sections, in the notice that says that the Document is released under this License.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\sl260 The "Cover Texts" are certain short passages of text that are listed, as Front-Cover Texts or Back-Cover Texts, in the notice that says that the Document is released under this License.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\sl260 A "Transparent" copy of the Document means a machine-readable copy, represented in a format whose specification is available to the general public, whose contents can be viewed and edited directly and straightforwardly with generic text editors or (for images composed of pixels) generic paint programs or (for drawings) some widely available drawing editor, and that is suitable for input to text formatters or for automatic translation to a variety of formats suitable for input to text formatters. A copy made in an otherwise Transparent file format whose markup has been designed to thwart or discourage subsequent modification by readers is not Transparent. A copy that is not "Transparent" is called "Opaque".\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\sl260 Examples of suitable formats for Transparent copies include plain ASCII without markup, Texinfo input format, LaTeX input format, SGML or XML using a publicly available DTD, and standard-conforming simple HTML designed for human modification. Opaque formats include PostScript, PDF, proprietary formats that can be read and edited only by proprietary word processors, SGML or XML for which the DTD and/or processing tools are not generally available, and the machine-generated HTML produced by some word processors for output purposes only.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\sl260 The "Title Page" means, for a printed book, the title page itself, plus such following pages as are needed to hold, legibly, the material this License requires to appear in the title page. For works in formats which do not have any title page as such, "Title Page" means the text near the most prominent appearance of the work's title, preceding the beginning of the body of the text.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb259\s2\sl449 {\*\bkmkstart ID_gfdl_45_verbation_45_copying}{\*\bkmkend ID_gfdl_45_verbation_45_copying}\b\fs34\lang1024 2. VERBATIM COPYING\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb173\sl260 \b0\fs20\lang1033 You may copy and distribute the Document in any medium, either commercially or noncommercially, provided that this License, the copyright notices, and the license notice saying this License applies to the Document are reproduced in all copies, and that you add no other conditions whatsoever to those of this License. You may not use technical measures to obstruct or control the reading or further copying of the copies you make or distribute. However, you may accept compensation in exchange for copies. If you distribute a large enough number of copies you must also follow the conditions in section 3.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\sl260 You may also lend copies, under the same conditions stated above, and you may publicly display copies.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb259\s2\sl449 {\*\bkmkstart ID_gfdl_45_copying_45_in_45_quantity}{\*\bkmkend ID_gfdl_45_copying_45_in_45_quantity}\b\fs34\lang1024 3. COPYING IN QUANTITY\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb173\sl260 \b0\fs20\lang1033 If you publish printed copies of the Document numbering more than 100, and the Document's license notice requires Cover Texts, you must enclose the copies in covers that carry, clearly and legibly, all these Cover Texts: Front-Cover Texts on the front cover, and Back-Cover Texts on the back cover. Both covers must also clearly and legibly identify you as the publisher of these copies. The front cover must present the full title with all words of the title equally prominent and visible. You may add other material on the covers in addition. Copying with changes limited to the covers, as long as they preserve the title of the Document and satisfy these conditions, can be treated as verbatim copying in other respects.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\sl260 If the required texts for either cover are too voluminous to fit legibly, you should put the first ones listed (as many as fit reasonably) on the actual cover, and continue the rest onto adjacent pages.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\sl260 If you publish or distribute Opaque copies of the Document numbering more than 100, you must either include a machine-readable Transparent copy along with each Opaque copy, or state in or with each Opaque copy a publicly-accessible computer-network location containing a complete Transparent copy of the Document, free of added material, which the general network-using public has access to download anonymously at no charge using public-standard network protocols. If you use the latter option, you must take reasonably prudent steps, when you begin distribution of Opaque copies in quantity, to ensure that this Transparent copy will remain thus accessible at the stated location until at least one year after the last time you distribute an Opaque copy (directly or through your agents or retailers) of that edition to the public.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\sl260 It is requested, but not required, that you contact the authors of the Document well before redistributing any large number of copies, to give them a chance to provide you with an updated version of the Document.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb259\s2\sl449 {\*\bkmkstart ID_gfdl_45_modifications}{\*\bkmkend ID_gfdl_45_modifications}\b\fs34\lang1024 4. MODIFICATIONS\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb173\sl260 \b0\fs20\lang1033 You may copy and distribute a Modified Version of the Document under the conditions of sections 2 and 3 above, provided that you release the Modified Version under precisely this License, with the Modified Version filling the role of the Document, thus licensing distribution and modification of the Modified Version to whoever possesses a copy of it. In addition, you must do these things in the Modified Version:\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li360\sl260\fi-360 \tqr\tx310\tx360\tab \lang1024 A.\tab Use in the Title Page (and on the covers, if any) a title distinct from that of the Document, and from those of previous versions (which should, if there were any, be listed in the History section of the Document). You may use the same title as a previous version if the original publisher of that version gives permission.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li360\sl260\fi-360 \tqr\tx310\tx360\tab B.\tab List on the Title Page, as authors, one or more persons or entities responsible for authorship of the modifications in the Modified Version, together with at least five of the principal authors of the Document (all of its principal authors, if it has less than five).\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li360\sl260\fi-360 \tqr\tx310\tx360\tab C.\tab State on the Title page the name of the publisher of the Modified Version, as the publisher.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li360\sl260\fi-360 \tqr\tx310\tx360\tab D.\tab Preserve all the copyright notices of the Document.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li360\sl260\fi-360 \tqr\tx310\tx360\tab E.\tab Add an appropriate copyright notice for your modifications adjacent to the other copyright notices.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li360\sl260\fi-360 \tqr\tx310\tx360\tab F.\tab Include, immediately after the copyright notices, a license notice giving the public permission to use the Modified Version under the terms of this License, in the form shown in the Addendum below.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li360\sl260\fi-360 \tqr\tx310\tx360\tab G.\tab Preserve in that license notice the full lists of Invariant Sections and required Cover Texts given in the Document's license notice.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li360\sl260\fi-360 \tqr\tx310\tx360\tab H.\tab Include an unaltered copy of this License.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li360\sl260\fi-360 \tqr\tx310\tx360\tab I.\tab Preserve the section entitled "History", and its title, and add to it an item stating at least the title, year, new authors, and publisher of the Modified Version as given on the Title Page. If there is no section entitled "History" in the Document, create one stating the title, year, authors, and publisher of the Document as given on its Title Page, then add an item describing the Modified Version as stated in the previous sentence.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li360\sl260\fi-360 \tqr\tx310\tx360\tab J.\tab Preserve the network location, if any, given in the Document for public access to a Transparent copy of the Document, and likewise the network locations given in the Document for previous versions it was based on. These may be placed in the "History" section. You may omit a network location for a work that was published at least four years before the Document itself, or if the original publisher of the version it refers to gives permission.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li360\sl260\fi-360 \tqr\tx310\tx360\tab K.\tab In any section entitled "Acknowledgements" or "Dedications", preserve the section's title, and preserve in the section all the substance and tone of each of the contributor acknowledgements and/or dedications given therein.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li360\sl260\fi-360 \tqr\tx310\tx360\tab L.\tab Preserve all the Invariant Sections of the Document, unaltered in their text and in their titles. Section numbers or the equivalent are not considered part of the section titles.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li360\sl260\fi-360 \tqr\tx310\tx360\tab M.\tab Delete any section entitled "Endorsements". Such a section may not be included in the Modified Version.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li360\sl260\fi-360 \tqr\tx310\tx360\tab N.\tab Do not retitle any existing section as "Endorsements" or to conflict in title with any Invariant Section.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\sl260 \lang1033 If the Modified Version includes new front-matter sections or appendices that qualify as Secondary Sections and contain no material copied from the Document, you may at your option designate some or all of these sections as invariant. To do this, add their titles to the list of Invariant Sections in the Modified Version's license notice. These titles must be distinct from any other section titles.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\sl260 You may add a section entitled "Endorsements", provided it contains nothing but endorsements of your Modified Version by various parties--for example, statements of peer review or that the text has been approved by an organization as the authoritative definition of a standard.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\sl260 You may add a passage of up to five words as a Front-Cover Text, and a passage of up to 25 words as a Back-Cover Text, to the end of the list of Cover Texts in the Modified Version. Only one passage of Front-Cover Text and one of Back-Cover Text may be added by (or through arrangements made by) any one entity. If the Document already includes a cover text for the same cover, previously added by you or by arrangement made by the same entity you are acting on behalf of, you may not add another; but you may replace the old one, on explicit permission from the previous publisher that added the old one.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\sl260 The author(s) and publisher(s) of the Document do not by this License give permission to use their names for publicity for or to assert or imply endorsement of any Modified Version.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb259\s2\sl449 {\*\bkmkstart ID_gfdl_45_combining_45_documents}{\*\bkmkend ID_gfdl_45_combining_45_documents}\b\fs34\lang1024 5. COMBINING DOCUMENTS\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb173\sl260 \b0\fs20\lang1033 You may combine the Document with other documents released under this License, under the terms defined in section 4 above for modified versions, provided that you include in the combination all of the Invariant Sections of all of the original documents, unmodified, and list them all as Invariant Sections of your combined work in its license notice.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\sl260 The combined work need only contain one copy of this License, and multiple identical Invariant Sections may be replaced with a single copy. If there are multiple Invariant Sections with the same name but different contents, make the title of each such section unique by adding at the end of it, in parentheses, the name of the original author or publisher of that section if known, or else a unique number. Make the same adjustment to the section titles in the list of Invariant Sections in the license notice of the combined work.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\sl260 In the combination, you must combine any sections entitled "History" in the various original documents, forming one section entitled "History"; likewise combine any sections entitled "Acknowledgements", and any sections entitled "Dedications". You must delete all sections entitled "Endorsements."\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb259\s2\sl449 {\*\bkmkstart ID_gfdl_45_collections_45_of_45_documents}{\*\bkmkend ID_gfdl_45_collections_45_of_45_documents}\b\fs34\lang1024 6. COLLECTIONS OF DOCUMENTS\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb173\sl260 \b0\fs20\lang1033 You may make a collection consisting of the Document and other documents released under this License, and replace the individual copies of this License in the various documents with a single copy that is included in the collection, provided that you follow the rules of this License for verbatim copying of each of the documents in all other respects.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\sl260 You may extract a single document from such a collection, and distribute it individually under this License, provided you insert a copy of this License into the extracted document, and follow this License in all other respects regarding verbatim copying of that document.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb259\s2\sl449 {\*\bkmkstart ID_gfdl_45_aggregation_45_with_45_independent_45_works}{\*\bkmkend ID_gfdl_45_aggregation_45_with_45_independent_45_works}\b\fs34\lang1024 7. AGGREGATION WITH INDEPENDENT WORKS\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb173\sl260 \b0\fs20\lang1033 A compilation of the Document or its derivatives with other separate and independent documents or works, in or on a volume of a storage or distribution medium, does not as a whole count as a Modified Version of the Document, provided no compilation copyright is claimed for the compilation. Such a compilation is called an "aggregate", and this License does not apply to the other self-contained works thus compiled with the Document, on account of their being thus compiled, if they are not themselves derivative works of the Document.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\sl260 If the Cover Text requirement of section 3 is applicable to these copies of the Document, then if the Document is less than one quarter of the entire aggregate, the Document's Cover Texts may be placed on covers that surround only the Document within the aggregate. Otherwise they must appear on covers around the whole aggregate.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb259\s2\sl449 {\*\bkmkstart ID_gfdl_45_translation}{\*\bkmkend ID_gfdl_45_translation}\b\fs34\lang1024 8. TRANSLATION\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb173\sl260 \b0\fs20\lang1033 Translation is considered a kind of modification, so you may distribute translations of the Document under the terms of section 4. Replacing Invariant Sections with translations requires special permission from their copyright holders, but you may include translations of some or all Invariant Sections in addition to the original versions of these Invariant Sections. You may include a translation of this License provided that you also include the original English version of this License. In case of a disagreement between the translation and the original English version of this License, the original English version will prevail.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb259\s2\sl449 {\*\bkmkstart ID_gfdl_45_termination}{\*\bkmkend ID_gfdl_45_termination}\b\fs34\lang1024 9. TERMINATION\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb173\sl260 \b0\fs20\lang1033 You may not copy, modify, sublicense, or distribute the Document except as expressly provided for under this License. Any other attempt to copy, modify, sublicense or distribute the Document is void, and will automatically terminate your rights under this License. However, parties who have received copies, or rights, from you under this License will not have their licenses terminated so long as such parties remain in full compliance.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb259\s2\sl449 {\*\bkmkstart ID_gfdl_45_future_45_revisions_45_of_45_this_45_license}{\*\bkmkend ID_gfdl_45_future_45_revisions_45_of_45_this_45_license}\b\fs34\lang1024 10. FUTURE REVISIONS OF THIS LICENSE\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb173\sl260 \b0\fs20\lang1033 The Free Software Foundation may publish new, revised versions of the GNU Free Documentation License from time to time. Such new versions will be similar in spirit to the present version, but may differ in detail to address new problems or concerns. See http://www.gnu.org/copyleft/.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\sl260 Each version of the License is given a distinguishing version number. If the Document specifies that a particular numbered version of this License "or any later version" applies to it, you have the option of following the terms and conditions either of that specified version or of any later version that has been published (not as a draft) by the Free Software Foundation. If the Document does not specify a version number of this License, you may choose any version ever published (not as a draft) by the Free Software Foundation.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb259\s2\sl449 {\*\bkmkstart ID_gfdl_45_using_45_for_45_your_45_documents}{\*\bkmkend ID_gfdl_45_using_45_for_45_your_45_documents}\b\fs34\lang1024 How to use this License for your documents\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb173\sl260 \b0\fs20\lang1033 To use this License in a document you have written, include a copy of the License in the document and put the following copyright and license notices just after the title page:\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li200\ri200\sl234 \fs18\lang1024 Copyright (c) YEAR YOUR NAME. Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.1 or any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with the Invariant Sections being LIST THEIR TITLES, with the Front-Cover Texts being LIST, and with the Back-Cover Texts being LIST. A copy of the license is included in the section entitled "GNU Free Documentation License".\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\sl260 \fs20\lang1033 If you have no Invariant Sections, write "with no Invariant Sections" instead of saying which ones are invariant. If you have no Front-Cover Texts, write "no Front-Cover Texts" instead of "Front-Cover Texts being LIST"; likewise for Back-Cover Texts.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\sl260 If your document contains nontrivial examples of program code, we recommend releasing these examples in parallel under your choice of free software license, such as the GNU General Public License, to permit their use in free software.\hyphpar0\par}
