{\rtf1\ansi\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f2\fnil\fcharset0 Courier New;}
{\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Arial;}
{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Times New Roman;}
}
{\colortbl;}{\stylesheet{\s1 Heading 1;}{\s2 Heading 2;}{\s3 Heading 3;}{\s4 Heading 4;}{\s5 Heading 5;}{\s6 Heading 6;}{\s7 Heading 7;}{\s8 Heading 8;}{\s9 Heading 9;}}
\deflang1024\notabind\facingp\hyphauto1\widowctrl
\sectd\plain\pgwsxn12240\pghsxn15840\marglsxn1440\margrsxn1440\margtsxn1440\margbsxn1920\headery0\footery0\pgndec{\headerl\pard\sl-240\sb770\sa430\plain\tqc\tx4680\tqr\tx9360 {}\tab {}\tab {}\par}{\footerl\pard\sl-240\sb770\sa910\plain\tqc\tx4680\tqr\tx9360 {}\tab {}\tab {}\par}{\headerr\pard\sl-240\sb770\sa430\plain\tqc\tx4680\tqr\tx9360 {}\tab {}\tab {}\par}{\footerr\pard\sl-240\sb770\sa910\plain\tqc\tx4680\tqr\tx9360 {}\tab {}\tab {}\par}\pard\sl20 {\*\bkmkstart ID_cygwin_45_xfree_45_cg}{\*\bkmkend ID_cygwin_45_xfree_45_cg}\fs20 \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb373\sl647\qc \b\fs49\f1 Cygwin/XFree86 Contributor's Guide\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sl260 \b0\fs20\f0 \~\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb1991\sl449\qc \b\fs34\f1 Harold L Hunt, II\hyphpar0\par\sect\sectd\plain\pgwsxn12240\pghsxn15840\marglsxn1440\margrsxn1440\margtsxn1440\margbsxn1920\headery0\footery0\pgndec{\headerl\pard\sl-240\sb770\sa430\plain\tqc\tx4680\tqr\tx9360 {}\tab {}\tab {}\par}{\footerl\pard\sl-240\sb770\sa910\plain\tqc\tx4680\tqr\tx9360 {}\tab {}\tab {}\par}{\headerr\pard\sl-240\sb770\sa430\plain\tqc\tx4680\tqr\tx9360 {}\tab {}\tab {}\par}{\footerr\pard\sl-240\sb770\sa910\plain\tqc\tx4680\tqr\tx9360 {}\tab {}\tab {}\par}\pard\sl20 \fs20 \keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sl-240 \b\f1 Cygwin/XFree86 Contributor's Guide\hyphpar0\par\pard\sl260 \b0\f0 by\~Harold L Hunt, II\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb260\li200\ri200\sl234 \fs18\lang1033  Copyright (c) 2001 Harold L Hunt II. Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.1 or any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no Invariant Sections, with no Front-Cover Texts, and with no Back-Cover Texts. A copy of the license is included in the section entitled "GNU Free Documentation License". \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb259\sl260 \fs20\lang1024 Revision History\sa90\par\trowd\trql \clvertalt\cellx3120\clvertalt\cellx6240\clvertalt\cellx9360 \plain \pard\intbl\sl260 \fs20 Revision 0.0.4\cell \plain \pard\intbl\sl260 \fs20 2001-07-02\cell \plain \pard\intbl\sl260 \fs20 Revised by: huntharo@msu.edu\cell \row \trowd\trql \clvertalt\cellx9360 \plain \pard\intbl\sl260 \fs20 Contributer's was misspelled, changed to Contributor's.\sa100\cell \row \trowd\trql \clvertalt\cellx3120\clvertalt\cellx6240\clvertalt\cellx9360 \plain \pard\intbl\sl260 \fs20 Revision 0.0.3\cell \plain \pard\intbl\sl260 \fs20 2001-06-13\cell \plain \pard\intbl\sl260 \fs20 Revised by: huntharo@msu.edu\cell \row \trowd\trql \clvertalt\cellx9360 \plain \pard\intbl\sl260 \fs20 Programming: Added a section on how to install a local build. Added information on how long commands take on a benchmark machine, how many files they generate, and how much disk space those files require.\sa100\cell \row \trowd\trql \clvertalt\cellx3120\clvertalt\cellx6240\clvertalt\cellx9360 \plain \pard\intbl\sl260 \fs20 Revision 0.0.2\cell \plain \pard\intbl\sl260 \fs20 2001-06-12\cell \plain \pard\intbl\sl260 \fs20 Revised by: huntharo@msu.edu\cell \row \trowd\trql \clvertalt\cellx9360 \plain \pard\intbl\sl260 \fs20 Programming: Added a section on how to update one's source code tree.\sa100\cell \row \trowd\trql \clvertalt\cellx3120\clvertalt\cellx6240\clvertalt\cellx9360 \plain \pard\intbl\sl260 \fs20 Revision 0.0.1\cell \plain \pard\intbl\sl260 \fs20 2001-06-11\cell \plain \pard\intbl\sl260 \fs20 Revised by: huntharo@msu.edu\cell \row \trowd\trql \clvertalt\cellx9360 \plain \pard\intbl\sl260 \fs20 Initial content for the Programming chapter.\sa100\cell \row \trowd\trql \clvertalt\cellx3120\clvertalt\cellx6240\clvertalt\cellx9360 \plain \pard\intbl\sl260 \fs20 Revision 0.0.0\cell \plain \pard\intbl\sl260 \fs20 2001-05-22\cell \plain \pard\intbl\sl260 \fs20 Revised by: huntharo@msu.edu\cell \row \trowd\trql \clvertalt\cellx9360 \plain \intbl\cell \row \pard\plain\sl-1\hyphpar0\par\sect\sectd\plain\pgwsxn12240\pghsxn15840\marglsxn1440\margrsxn1440\margtsxn1440\margbsxn1920\headery0\footery0\pgnlcrm\pgnrestart{\headerl\pard\sl-240\sb770\sa430\plain\tqc\tx4680\tqr\tx9360 {}\tab {}\tab {}\par}{\footerl\pard\sl-240\sb770\sa910\plain\tqc\tx4680\tqr\tx9360 {}\tab {}\tab {\i\fs20 \chpgn }\par}{\headerr\pard\sl-240\sb770\sa430\plain\tqc\tx4680\tqr\tx9360 {}\tab {}\tab {}\par}{\footerr\pard\sl-240\sb770\sa910\plain\tqc\tx4680\tqr\tx9360 {}\tab {}\tab {\i\fs20 \chpgn }\par}\pard\sb311\s1\sl539 \b\fs41\f1 Table of Contents\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb207\li1440\sl260\fi-480 {\field{\*\fldinst   HYPERLINK  \\l ID_overview}{\fldrslt \fs20\f0 1. Overview}}\fs20\f0 \tqr\tldot\tx9360\tab {\field{\*\fldinst   HYPERLINK  \\l ID_overview}{\fldrslt {\field\flddirty{\*\fldinst PAGEREF ID_overview}{\fldrslt 000}}}}\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb48\li1440\sl260\fi-480 {\field{\*\fldinst   HYPERLINK  \\l ID_programming}{\fldrslt 2. Programming}}\tqr\tldot\tx9360\tab {\field{\*\fldinst   HYPERLINK  \\l ID_programming}{\fldrslt {\field\flddirty{\*\fldinst PAGEREF ID_programming}{\fldrslt 000}}}}\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb48\li1920\sl260\fi-480 {\field{\*\fldinst   HYPERLINK  \\l ID_prog_45_overview}{\fldrslt \b0 Overview}}\b0 \tqr\tldot\tx9360\tab {\field{\*\fldinst   HYPERLINK  \\l ID_prog_45_overview}{\fldrslt {\field\flddirty{\*\fldinst PAGEREF ID_prog_45_overview}{\fldrslt 000}}}}\hyphpar0\par\pard\li1920\sl260\fi-480 {\field{\*\fldinst   HYPERLINK  \\l ID_prog_45_source_45_obtaining}{\fldrslt Obtaining the Source Code}}\tqr\tldot\tx9360\tab {\field{\*\fldinst   HYPERLINK  \\l ID_prog_45_source_45_obtaining}{\fldrslt {\field\flddirty{\*\fldinst PAGEREF ID_prog_45_source_45_obtaining}{\fldrslt 000}}}}\hyphpar0\par\pard\li1920\sl260\fi-480 {\field{\*\fldinst   HYPERLINK  \\l ID_prog_45_compiling}{\fldrslt Compiling the Source Code}}\tqr\tldot\tx9360\tab {\field{\*\fldinst   HYPERLINK  \\l ID_prog_45_compiling}{\fldrslt {\field\flddirty{\*\fldinst PAGEREF ID_prog_45_compiling}{\fldrslt 000}}}}\hyphpar0\par\pard\li2400\sl260\fi-480 {\field{\*\fldinst   HYPERLINK  \\l ID_prog_45_compiling_45_}{\fldrslt Compiling Overview}}\tqr\tldot\tx9360\tab {\field{\*\fldinst   HYPERLINK  \\l ID_prog_45_compiling_45_}{\fldrslt {\field\flddirty{\*\fldinst PAGEREF ID_prog_45_compiling_45_}{\fldrslt 000}}}}\hyphpar0\par\pard\li2400\sl260\fi-480 {\field{\*\fldinst   HYPERLINK  \\l ID_prog_45_compiling_45_standard}{\fldrslt Standard Build}}\tqr\tldot\tx9360\tab {\field{\*\fldinst   HYPERLINK  \\l ID_prog_45_compiling_45_standard}{\fldrslt {\field\flddirty{\*\fldinst PAGEREF ID_prog_45_compiling_45_standard}{\fldrslt 000}}}}\hyphpar0\par\pard\li2400\sl260\fi-480 {\field{\*\fldinst   HYPERLINK  \\l ID_prog_45_compiling_45_debug}{\fldrslt Debug Build}}\tqr\tldot\tx9360\tab {\field{\*\fldinst   HYPERLINK  \\l ID_prog_45_compiling_45_debug}{\fldrslt {\field\flddirty{\*\fldinst PAGEREF ID_prog_45_compiling_45_debug}{\fldrslt 000}}}}\hyphpar0\par\pard\li1920\sl260\fi-480 {\field{\*\fldinst   HYPERLINK  \\l ID_prog_45_compiling_45_install}{\fldrslt Installing a local build}}\tqr\tldot\tx9360\tab {\field{\*\fldinst   HYPERLINK  \\l ID_prog_45_compiling_45_install}{\fldrslt {\field\flddirty{\*\fldinst PAGEREF ID_prog_45_compiling_45_install}{\fldrslt 000}}}}\hyphpar0\par\pard\li1920\sl260\fi-480 {\field{\*\fldinst   HYPERLINK  \\l ID_prog_45_tree_45_update}{\fldrslt Keeping your source code tree updated}}\tqr\tldot\tx9360\tab {\field{\*\fldinst   HYPERLINK  \\l ID_prog_45_tree_45_update}{\fldrslt {\field\flddirty{\*\fldinst PAGEREF ID_prog_45_tree_45_update}{\fldrslt 000}}}}\hyphpar0\par\pard\li2400\sl260\fi-480 {\field{\*\fldinst   HYPERLINK  \\l ID_prog_45_tree_45_update_45_all}{\fldrslt Update the entire source code tree}}\tqr\tldot\tx9360\tab {\field{\*\fldinst   HYPERLINK  \\l ID_prog_45_tree_45_update_45_all}{\fldrslt {\field\flddirty{\*\fldinst PAGEREF ID_prog_45_tree_45_update_45_all}{\fldrslt 000}}}}\hyphpar0\par\pard\li2400\sl260\fi-480 {\field{\*\fldinst   HYPERLINK  \\l ID_prog_45_source_45_update_45_individual}{\fldrslt Update a single file or directory}}\tqr\tldot\tx9360\tab {\field{\*\fldinst   HYPERLINK  \\l ID_prog_45_source_45_update_45_individual}{\fldrslt {\field\flddirty{\*\fldinst PAGEREF ID_prog_45_source_45_update_45_individual}{\fldrslt 000}}}}\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb48\li1440\sl260\fi-480 {\field{\*\fldinst   HYPERLINK  \\l ID_documentation}{\fldrslt \b 3. Documentation}}\b \tqr\tldot\tx9360\tab {\field{\*\fldinst   HYPERLINK  \\l ID_documentation}{\fldrslt {\field\flddirty{\*\fldinst PAGEREF ID_documentation}{\fldrslt 000}}}}\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb48\li1440\sl260\fi-480 {\field{\*\fldinst   HYPERLINK  \\l ID_website}{\fldrslt 4. Web Site Maintenance}}\tqr\tldot\tx9360\tab {\field{\*\fldinst   HYPERLINK  \\l ID_website}{\fldrslt {\field\flddirty{\*\fldinst PAGEREF ID_website}{\fldrslt 000}}}}\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb48\li1440\sl260\fi-480 {\field{\*\fldinst   HYPERLINK  \\l ID_biblio}{\fldrslt Bibliography}}\tqr\tldot\tx9360\tab {\field{\*\fldinst   HYPERLINK  \\l ID_biblio}{\fldrslt {\field\flddirty{\*\fldinst PAGEREF ID_biblio}{\fldrslt 000}}}}\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb48\li1440\sl260\fi-480 {\field{\*\fldinst   HYPERLINK  \\l ID_glossary}{\fldrslt Glossary}}\tqr\tldot\tx9360\tab {\field{\*\fldinst   HYPERLINK  \\l ID_glossary}{\fldrslt {\field\flddirty{\*\fldinst PAGEREF ID_glossary}{\fldrslt 000}}}}\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb48\li1440\sl260\fi-480 {\field{\*\fldinst   HYPERLINK  \\l ID_gfdl}{\fldrslt A. GNU Free Documentation License}}\tqr\tldot\tx9360\tab {\field{\*\fldinst   HYPERLINK  \\l ID_gfdl}{\fldrslt {\field\flddirty{\*\fldinst PAGEREF ID_gfdl}{\fldrslt 000}}}}\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb48\li1920\sl260\fi-480 {\field{\*\fldinst   HYPERLINK  \\l ID_gfdl_45_preamble}{\fldrslt \b0 0. PREAMBLE}}\b0 \tqr\tldot\tx9360\tab {\field{\*\fldinst   HYPERLINK  \\l ID_gfdl_45_preamble}{\fldrslt {\field\flddirty{\*\fldinst PAGEREF ID_gfdl_45_preamble}{\fldrslt 000}}}}\hyphpar0\par\pard\li1920\sl260\fi-480 {\field{\*\fldinst   HYPERLINK  \\l ID_gfdl_45_applicability_45_and_45_definitions}{\fldrslt 1. APPLICABILITY AND DEFINITIONS}}\tqr\tldot\tx9360\tab {\field{\*\fldinst   HYPERLINK  \\l ID_gfdl_45_applicability_45_and_45_definitions}{\fldrslt {\field\flddirty{\*\fldinst PAGEREF ID_gfdl_45_applicability_45_and_45_definitions}{\fldrslt 000}}}}\hyphpar0\par\pard\li1920\sl260\fi-480 {\field{\*\fldinst   HYPERLINK  \\l ID_gfdl_45_verbation_45_copying}{\fldrslt 2. VERBATIM COPYING}}\tqr\tldot\tx9360\tab {\field{\*\fldinst   HYPERLINK  \\l ID_gfdl_45_verbation_45_copying}{\fldrslt {\field\flddirty{\*\fldinst PAGEREF ID_gfdl_45_verbation_45_copying}{\fldrslt 000}}}}\hyphpar0\par\pard\li1920\sl260\fi-480 {\field{\*\fldinst   HYPERLINK  \\l ID_gfdl_45_copying_45_in_45_quantity}{\fldrslt 3. COPYING IN QUANTITY}}\tqr\tldot\tx9360\tab {\field{\*\fldinst   HYPERLINK  \\l ID_gfdl_45_copying_45_in_45_quantity}{\fldrslt {\field\flddirty{\*\fldinst PAGEREF ID_gfdl_45_copying_45_in_45_quantity}{\fldrslt 000}}}}\hyphpar0\par\pard\li1920\sl260\fi-480 {\field{\*\fldinst   HYPERLINK  \\l ID_gfdl_45_modifications}{\fldrslt 4. MODIFICATIONS}}\tqr\tldot\tx9360\tab {\field{\*\fldinst   HYPERLINK  \\l ID_gfdl_45_modifications}{\fldrslt {\field\flddirty{\*\fldinst PAGEREF ID_gfdl_45_modifications}{\fldrslt 000}}}}\hyphpar0\par\pard\li1920\sl260\fi-480 {\field{\*\fldinst   HYPERLINK  \\l ID_gfdl_45_combining_45_documents}{\fldrslt 5. COMBINING DOCUMENTS}}\tqr\tldot\tx9360\tab {\field{\*\fldinst   HYPERLINK  \\l ID_gfdl_45_combining_45_documents}{\fldrslt {\field\flddirty{\*\fldinst PAGEREF ID_gfdl_45_combining_45_documents}{\fldrslt 000}}}}\hyphpar0\par\pard\li1920\sl260\fi-480 {\field{\*\fldinst   HYPERLINK  \\l ID_gfdl_45_collections_45_of_45_documents}{\fldrslt 6. COLLECTIONS OF DOCUMENTS}}\tqr\tldot\tx9360\tab {\field{\*\fldinst   HYPERLINK  \\l ID_gfdl_45_collections_45_of_45_documents}{\fldrslt {\field\flddirty{\*\fldinst PAGEREF ID_gfdl_45_collections_45_of_45_documents}{\fldrslt 000}}}}\hyphpar0\par\pard\li1920\sl260\fi-480 {\field{\*\fldinst   HYPERLINK  \\l ID_gfdl_45_aggregation_45_with_45_independent_45_works}{\fldrslt 7. AGGREGATION WITH INDEPENDENT WORKS}}\tqr\tldot\tx9360\tab {\field{\*\fldinst   HYPERLINK  \\l ID_gfdl_45_aggregation_45_with_45_independent_45_works}{\fldrslt {\field\flddirty{\*\fldinst PAGEREF ID_gfdl_45_aggregation_45_with_45_independent_45_works}{\fldrslt 000}}}}\hyphpar0\par\pard\li1920\sl260\fi-480 {\field{\*\fldinst   HYPERLINK  \\l ID_gfdl_45_translation}{\fldrslt 8. TRANSLATION}}\tqr\tldot\tx9360\tab {\field{\*\fldinst   HYPERLINK  \\l ID_gfdl_45_translation}{\fldrslt {\field\flddirty{\*\fldinst PAGEREF ID_gfdl_45_translation}{\fldrslt 000}}}}\hyphpar0\par\pard\li1920\sl260\fi-480 {\field{\*\fldinst   HYPERLINK  \\l ID_gfdl_45_termination}{\fldrslt 9. TERMINATION}}\tqr\tldot\tx9360\tab {\field{\*\fldinst   HYPERLINK  \\l ID_gfdl_45_termination}{\fldrslt {\field\flddirty{\*\fldinst PAGEREF ID_gfdl_45_termination}{\fldrslt 000}}}}\hyphpar0\par\pard\li1920\sl260\fi-480 {\field{\*\fldinst   HYPERLINK  \\l ID_gfdl_45_future_45_revisions_45_of_45_this_45_license}{\fldrslt 10. FUTURE REVISIONS OF THIS LICENSE}}\tqr\tldot\tx9360\tab {\field{\*\fldinst   HYPERLINK  \\l ID_gfdl_45_future_45_revisions_45_of_45_this_45_license}{\fldrslt {\field\flddirty{\*\fldinst PAGEREF ID_gfdl_45_future_45_revisions_45_of_45_this_45_license}{\fldrslt 000}}}}\hyphpar0\par\pard\li1920\sl260\fi-480 {\field{\*\fldinst   HYPERLINK  \\l ID_gfdl_45_using_45_for_45_your_45_documents}{\fldrslt How to use this License for your documents}}\tqr\tldot\tx9360\tab {\field{\*\fldinst   HYPERLINK  \\l ID_gfdl_45_using_45_for_45_your_45_documents}{\fldrslt {\field\flddirty{\*\fldinst PAGEREF ID_gfdl_45_using_45_for_45_your_45_documents}{\fldrslt 000}}}}\hyphpar0\par\sect\sectd\plain\pgwsxn12240\pghsxn15840\marglsxn1440\margrsxn1440\margtsxn1440\margbsxn1920\headery0\footery0\pgndec\pgnrestart\titlepg{\headerf\pard\sl-240\sb770\sa430\plain\tqc\tx4680\tqr\tx9360 {}\tab {}\tab {}\par}{\footerf\pard\sl-240\sb770\sa910\plain\tqc\tx4680\tqr\tx9360 {}\tab {}\tab {\i\fs20 \chpgn }\par}{\headerl\pard\sl-240\sb770\sa430\plain\tqc\tx4680\tqr\tx9360 {}\tab {}\tab {\i\fs20 Chapter 1. Overview}\par}{\footerl\pard\sl-240\sb770\sa910\plain\tqc\tx4680\tqr\tx9360 {}\tab {}\tab {\i\fs20 \chpgn }\par}{\headerr\pard\sl-240\sb770\sa430\plain\tqc\tx4680\tqr\tx9360 {}\tab {}\tab {\i\fs20 Chapter 1. Overview}\par}{\footerr\pard\sl-240\sb770\sa910\plain\tqc\tx4680\tqr\tx9360 {}\tab {}\tab {\i\fs20 \chpgn }\par}\pard\sb311\s1\sl539 {\*\bkmkstart ID_overview}{\*\bkmkend ID_overview}\b\fs41\f1 Chapter 1. Overview\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb207\li960\sl260 \b0\fs20\lang1033\f0 The Cygwin/XFree86 project can use your help! We will do everything we can to make experienced contributers productive as soon as possible. We also want to make it as easy as possible for new contributers to make Cygwin/XFree86 their first open source project.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li960\sl260 Cygwin/XFree86 is part of the vast number of open source/free software programs that provide compatibility with closed source/commercial software products. Cygwin/XFree86 enables the coexistence of closed software and open software during the period of transition from an almost completely closed software market to an almost completely open software market.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li960\sl260 Join in the excitement of opening your Windows machine to the X Window System.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li960\sl260 We need {\field{\*\fldinst   HYPERLINK  \\l ID_programming}{\fldrslt programmers}}, {\field{\*\fldinst   HYPERLINK  \\l ID_documentation}{\fldrslt documentation writers}}, and {\field{\*\fldinst   HYPERLINK  \\l ID_website}{\fldrslt website maintainers}}.\hyphpar0\par\sect\sectd\plain\pgwsxn12240\pghsxn15840\marglsxn1440\margrsxn1440\margtsxn1440\margbsxn1920\headery0\footery0\pgndec\titlepg{\headerf\pard\sl-240\sb770\sa430\plain\tqc\tx4680\tqr\tx9360 {}\tab {}\tab {}\par}{\footerf\pard\sl-240\sb770\sa910\plain\tqc\tx4680\tqr\tx9360 {}\tab {}\tab {\i\fs20 \chpgn }\par}{\headerl\pard\sl-240\sb770\sa430\plain\tqc\tx4680\tqr\tx9360 {}\tab {}\tab {\i\fs20 Chapter 2. Programming}\par}{\footerl\pard\sl-240\sb770\sa910\plain\tqc\tx4680\tqr\tx9360 {}\tab {}\tab {\i\fs20 \chpgn }\par}{\headerr\pard\sl-240\sb770\sa430\plain\tqc\tx4680\tqr\tx9360 {}\tab {}\tab {\i\fs20 Chapter 2. Programming}\par}{\footerr\pard\sl-240\sb770\sa910\plain\tqc\tx4680\tqr\tx9360 {}\tab {}\tab {\i\fs20 \chpgn }\par}\pard\sb311\s1\sl539 {\*\bkmkstart ID_programming}{\*\bkmkend ID_programming}\b\fs41\f1 Chapter 2. Programming\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb259\s2\sl449 {\*\bkmkstart ID_prog_45_overview}{\*\bkmkend ID_prog_45_overview}\fs34 Overview\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb173\li960\sl260 \b0\fs20\lang1033\f0 This chapter provides a consolidated overview of all of the information needed to begin making source code contributions to Cygwin/XFree86. Creating a source code contribution for Cygwin/XFree86 requires an amazingly small amount of information; however, prior to this document that tiny amount of information was difficult to obtain, as it was scattered across several documents and source code files. New programmers with no open source project experience, as well as programming gurus, will be able to make sourc code contributions to Cygwin/XFree86 after reading this chapter. Programming gurus are great; our intention is to create more of them.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li960\sl260 You will want to start downloading the XFree86 source code tree immediately after reading {\field{\*\fldinst   HYPERLINK  \\l ID_prog_45_source_45_obtaining}{\fldrslt the section called \i Obtaining the Source Code}}, if you have an active network connection at your disposal, as downloading the source code tree can take anywhere from 10 minutes to 10 hours, depending upon the speed of your connection. You will find it advantageous to have a source code tree as you read the later sections.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb259\s2\sl449 {\*\bkmkstart ID_prog_45_source_45_obtaining}{\*\bkmkend ID_prog_45_source_45_obtaining}\b\fs34\lang1024\f1 Obtaining the Source Code\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb173\li960\sl260 \b0\fs20\lang1033\f0 Cygwin/XFree86 source code is contained in, and distributed with, the XFree86 source code tree. Read-only CVS access to the XFree86 source tree (http://xfree86.org/cvs/) is also available from the XFree86 project.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li960\sl260 The XFree86 CVS tree is not always buildable on Cygwin, as the XFree86 CVS tree is modified frequently, and sometimes those modifications cause building on Cygwin to fail; however, there are a few developers monitoring the build state of the XFree86 CVS tree on Cygwin, and they quickly fix build problems as they appear. It is unlikely that you will experience problems building XFree86 on Cygwin; in the event that you do experience build problems, you may wish to drop a note to cygwin-xfree@cygwin.com to let the developers there know that the tree is not building correctly.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li960\sl260 Periodically the Cygwin/XFree86 project releases a snapshot of the XFree86 source code that is known to compile. It is perfectly acceptable, though rarely necessary, to do your independent development work from a stable source code snapshot, rather than from the XFree86 CVS tree. Developing from a stable source code snapshots minimizes the scope of problems that you may encounter, which can greatly ease debugging of new features and other code modifications.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li960\sl260 It is highly recommended to get the XFree86 {\field{\*\fldinst   HYPERLINK  \\l ID_gloss_45_cvs}{\fldrslt \i CVS}} tree by using the CVS {\field{\*\fldinst   HYPERLINK  \\l ID_gloss_45_pserver}{\fldrslt \i pserver}} method. CVS pserver is the easiest CVS method to use for anonymous access to public CVS trees, as you need only type in a well-known password to download the CVS tree. CVS pserver is rarely used to control checkins to CVS trees, as the passwords are stored and sent as plain text; thus, pserver is extremely insecure. However, security does not matter for a public read-only CVS tree.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li960\sl260 Follow these steps to checkout the XFree86 CVS tree:\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1320\sl260\fi-360 \tqr\tx1270\tx1320\tab \lang1024 1.\tab Open a Cygwin \b bash\b0  shell by double clicking the Cygwin icon on your desktop, or by selecting \f1 Start\f0 , then \f1 Programs\f0 , followed by \f1 Cygnus Solutions\f0 , and finally \f1 Cygwin Bash Shell\f0 . You will see output similar to the following:\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1320\sl234 \fs18\f2 \sa0\par\fi0\sb0
Harold@MyWindowsHost ~\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
$ \sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1320\sl260\fi-360 \tqr\tx1270\tx1320\tab \fs20\f0 2.\tab Create a directory in which to store your XFree86 CVS tree and your builds; \fs18\f2 ~/x-devel\fs20\f0  is recommended:\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1320\sl234 \fs18\f2 \sa0\par\fi0\sb0
Harold@MyWindowsHost ~\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
$ mkdir x-devel\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
Harold@MyWindowsHost ~\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
$ \sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1320\sl260\fi-360 \tqr\tx1270\tx1320\tab \fs20\f0 3.\tab Change the current directory to your new XFree86 development directory:\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1320\sl234 \fs18\f2 \sa0\par\fi0\sb0
Harold@MyWindowsHost ~\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
$ cd x-devel\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
Harold@MyWindowsHost ~/x-devel\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
$ \sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1320\sl260\fi-360 \tqr\tx1270\tx1320\tab \fs20\f0 4.\tab Set the CVSROOT environment variable to point to the XFree86 CVS repository:\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1320\sl234 \fs18\f2 \sa0\par\fi0\sb0
Harold@MyWindowsHost ~/x-devel\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
$ CVSROOT=:pserver:anoncvs@anoncvs.xfree86.org:/cvs\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
Harold@MyWindowsHost ~/x-devel\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
$ export CVSROOT\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
Harold@MyWindowsHost ~/x-devel\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
$\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1320\sl260\fi-360 \tqr\tx1270\tx1320\tab \fs20\f0 5.\tab Login to the CVS server, using password \'93anoncvs\'94:\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1320\sl234 \fs18\f2 \sa0\par\fi0\sb0
Harold@MyWindowsHost ~/x-devel\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
$ cvs login\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
(Logging in to anoncvs@anoncvs.xfree86.org)\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
CVS password:\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
Harold@MyWindowsHost ~/x-devel\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
$ \sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1320\sl260\fi-360 \tqr\tx1270\tx1320\tab \fs20\f0 6.\tab Checkout the \fs18\f2 xc/\fs20\f0  directory from the XFree86 CVS tree:\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1720\sl234 \b\fs18\f1 Tip: \b0 The \i\f2 -zn\i0\f1  parameter specifies the compression level to use, from 1 to 9, with 9 being maximum compression.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1720\sl234 \b Note: \b0 As of 2001-06-12, a checked out XFree86 CVS source code tree contains 16,199 files in 3,021 folders, which is 242 MB of data, but requires 285 MB of storage space on a file system using 4 KB allocation units.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1320\sl234 \f2 \sa0\par\fi0\sb0
Harold@MyWindowsHost ~/x-devel\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
$ cvs -z4 checkout xc\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
cvs server: Updating xc\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
...\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
Harold@MyWindowsHost ~/x-devel\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
$\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1320\sl260 \fs20\lang1033\f0 You may preserve a logfile for the checkout session by instead using the following command:\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1320\sl234 \fs18\lang1024\f2 \sa0\par\fi0\sb0
Harold@MyWindowsHost ~/x-devel\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
$ cvs -z4 checkout xc > xc-cvs-checkout.log 2>&1\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
Harold@MyWindowsHost ~/x-devel\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
$ \sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb259\s2\sl449 {\*\bkmkstart ID_prog_45_compiling}{\*\bkmkend ID_prog_45_compiling}\b\fs34\f1 Compiling the Source Code\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb173\li960\sl260 \b0\fs20\lang1033\f0 Compiling Cygwin/XFree86 doesn't have to be hard, although the XFree86 source code tree contains over 250 MB of data. There are a few simple techniques that make building the source code, keeping the source code up to date, and keeping the source code organized much easier.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb216\s3\sl374 {\*\bkmkstart ID_prog_45_compiling_45_}{\*\bkmkend ID_prog_45_compiling_45_}\b\fs28\lang1024\f1 Compiling Overview\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb144\li960\sl260 \b0\fs20\lang1033\f0 Compiling the XFree86 source code tree is a lot easier when you keep your builds in directories seperate from the source code directory. Keeping the source code and builds in seperate directories allows you to have many builds for different configurations, allows you to easily delete a build, and keeps the source code tree clean and manageable.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li960\sl260 A small utility, \fs18\f2 lndir.exe\fs20\f0 , is needed to keep your builds directories sepereate from your source directory; \fs18\f2 lndir.exe\fs20\f0  works just like the standard \b ln\b0  on UNIX, but \fs18\f2 lndir.exe\fs20\f0  creates links recursively for all files and directories in the specified directory. The \fs18\f2 lndir.exe\fs20\f0  utility is included with the XFree86 source code tree; but the catch is that you need to build the tree before you get \fs18\f2 lndir.exe\fs20\f0 . \fs18\f2 lndir.exe\fs20\f0  has been compiled and is available at http://www.msu.edu/~huntharo/xwin/lndir.exe.bz2 (8 kB). Download the file, saving it to your Cygwin root directory (e.g. \fs18\f2 c:\\cygwin\fs20\f0 ), then follow the simple instructions below to install the utility:\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1320\sl260\fi-360 \tqr\tx1270\tx1320\tab \lang1024 1.\tab Launch a Cygwin \b bash\b0  prompt. You should see a screen similar to the following:\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1320\sl234 \fs18\f2 \sa0\par\fi0\sb0
Harold@MyWindowsHost ~\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
$ \sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1320\sl260\fi-360 \tqr\tx1270\tx1320\tab \fs20\f0 2.\tab Change to your Cygwin root directory:\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1320\sl234 \fs18\f2 \sa0\par\fi0\sb0
Harold@MyWindowsHost ~\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
$ cd /\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
Harold@MyWindowsHost /\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
$ \sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1320\sl260\fi-360 \tqr\tx1270\tx1320\tab \fs20\f0 3.\tab Uncompress lndir.exe.bz2:\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1320\sl234 \fs18\f2 \sa0\par\fi0\sb0
Harold@MyWindowsHost /\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
$ bunzip2 lndir.exe.bz2\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
Harold@MyWindowsHost /\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
$ \sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1320\sl260\fi-360 \tqr\tx1270\tx1320\tab \fs20\f0 4.\tab Copy lndir.exe to \fs18\f2 /bin\fs20\f0 :\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1320\sl234 \fs18\f2 \sa0\par\fi0\sb0
Harold@MyWindowsHost /\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
$ cp lndir.exe /bin\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
Harold@MyWindowsHost /\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
$ \sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1320\sl260\fi-360 \tqr\tx1270\tx1320\tab \fs20\f0 5.\tab Verify that \b lndir\b0  is working:\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1320\sl234 \fs18\f2 \sa0\par\fi0\sb0
Harold@MyWindowsHost /\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
$ lndir\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
usage: lndir.exe [-silent] [-ignorelinks] fromdir [todir]\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
Harold@MyWindowsHost /\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
$ \sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1320\sl260\fi-360 \tqr\tx1270\tx1320\tab \fs20\f0 6.\tab The \b lndir\b0  utility is now installed.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb216\s3\sl374 {\*\bkmkstart ID_prog_45_compiling_45_standard}{\*\bkmkend ID_prog_45_compiling_45_standard}\b\fs28\f1 Standard Build\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb144\li960\sl260 \b0\fs20\lang1033\f0 Follow these steps to create a standard, non-debug, build:\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1320\sl260\fi-360 \tqr\tx1270\tx1320\tab \lang1024 1.\tab Change the current directory to your XFree86 development directory:\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1320\sl234 \fs18\f2 \sa0\par\fi0\sb0
Harold@MyWindowsHost ~\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
$ cd x-devel\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
Harold@MyWindowsHost ~/x-devel\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
$ \sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1320\sl260\fi-360 \tqr\tx1270\tx1320\tab \fs20\f0 2.\tab Create a directory to house your builds, \fs18\f2 ~/x-devel/build\fs20\f0  is recommended:\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1320\sl234 \fs18\f2 \sa0\par\fi0\sb0
Harold@MyWindowsHost ~/x-devel\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
$ mkdir build\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
Harold@MyWindowsHost ~/x-devel/build\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
$ \sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1320\sl260\fi-360 \tqr\tx1270\tx1320\tab \fs20\f0 3.\tab Change the current directory to your build directory:\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1320\sl234 \fs18\f2 \sa0\par\fi0\sb0
Harold@MyWindowsHost ~/x-devel\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
$ cd build\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
Harold@MyWindowsHost ~/x-devel/build\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
$ \sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1320\sl260\fi-360 \tqr\tx1270\tx1320\tab \fs20\f0 4.\tab Create a directory for your standard build, \fs18\f2 std\fs20\f0  is recommended:\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1320\sl234 \fs18\f2 \sa0\par\fi0\sb0
Harold@MyWindowsHost ~/x-devel/build\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
$ mkdir std\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
Harold@MyWindowsHost ~/x-devel/build\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
$ \sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1320\sl260\fi-360 \tqr\tx1270\tx1320\tab \fs20\f0 5.\tab Change the current directory to your standard build directory:\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1320\sl234 \fs18\f2 \sa0\par\fi0\sb0
Harold@MyWindowsHost ~/x-devel/build\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
$ cd std\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
Harold@MyWindowsHost ~/x-devel/build/std\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
$ \sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1320\sl260\fi-360 \tqr\tx1270\tx1320\tab \fs20\f0 6.\tab Create symlinks to your source tree, using \b lndir\b0 , in your standard build directory:\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1720\sl234 \b\fs18\f1 Note: \b0 As of 2001-06-12, creating symlinks to the source tree creates 11,664 files in 1,510 folders, which is only 2.24 MB of data, but requires 45.5 MB of storage space on a file system using 4 KB allocation units.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1320\sl234 \f2 \sa0\par\fi0\sb0
Harold@MyWindowsHost ~/x-devel/build/std\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
$ lndir ../../xc/\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
../../xc/config:\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
../../../xc/config/cf:\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
...\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
Harold@MyWindowsHost ~/x-devel/build/std\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
$ \sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1320\sl260\fi-360 \tqr\tx1270\tx1320\tab \fs20\f0 7.\tab Run a standard build of the entire tree, which takes between 30 minutes and 5 hours, saving the output of the build commands to \fs18\f2 World.log\fs20\f0 :\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1720\sl234 \b\fs18\f1 Note: \b0 As of 2001-06-12, a standard build of the entire tree requires 255.5 MB of storage space on a file system using 4 KB allocation units; that is in addition to the 45.5 MB of previously generated symlinks.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1720\sl234 As a benchmark, a standard build runs for 71 minutes on a machine with a 1.2 GHz Atlhon, 256 MB DDR RAM, and a 7200 RPM ATA/100 HD.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1320\sl234 \f2 \sa0\par\fi0\sb0
Harold@MyWindowsHost ~/x-devel/build/std\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
$ make World > World.log 2>&1\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
Harold@MyWindowsHost ~/x-devel/build/std\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
$ \sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb216\s3\sl374 {\*\bkmkstart ID_prog_45_compiling_45_debug}{\*\bkmkend ID_prog_45_compiling_45_debug}\b\fs28\f1 Debug Build\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb144\li960\sl260 \b0\fs20\lang1033\f0 Follow these steps to create a build with debugging information:\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1320\sl260\fi-360 \tqr\tx1270\tx1320\tab \lang1024 1.\tab Change the current directory to your XFree86 development directory:\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1320\sl234 \fs18\f2 \sa0\par\fi0\sb0
Harold@MyWindowsHost ~\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
$ cd x-devel\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
Harold@MyWindowsHost ~/x-devel\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
$ \sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1320\sl260\fi-360 \tqr\tx1270\tx1320\tab \fs20\f0 2.\tab If you have not already done so, create a directory to house your builds, \fs18\f2 ~/x-devel/build\fs20\f0  is recommended:\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1320\sl234 \fs18\f2 \sa0\par\fi0\sb0
Harold@MyWindowsHost ~/x-devel\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
$ mkdir build\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
Harold@MyWindowsHost ~/x-devel/build\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
$ \sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1320\sl260\fi-360 \tqr\tx1270\tx1320\tab \fs20\f0 3.\tab Change the current directory to your build directory:\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1320\sl234 \fs18\f2 \sa0\par\fi0\sb0
Harold@MyWindowsHost ~/x-devel\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
$ cd build\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
Harold@MyWindowsHost ~/x-devel/build\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
$ \sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1320\sl260\fi-360 \tqr\tx1270\tx1320\tab \fs20\f0 4.\tab Create a directory for your debug build, \fs18\f2 debug\fs20\f0  is recommended:\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1320\sl234 \fs18\f2 \sa0\par\fi0\sb0
Harold@MyWindowsHost ~/x-devel/build\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
$ mkdir debug\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
Harold@MyWindowsHost ~/x-devel/build\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
$ \sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1320\sl260\fi-360 \tqr\tx1270\tx1320\tab \fs20\f0 5.\tab Change the current directory to your debug build directory:\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1320\sl234 \fs18\f2 \sa0\par\fi0\sb0
Harold@MyWindowsHost ~/x-devel/build\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
$ cd debug\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
Harold@MyWindowsHost ~/x-devel/build/debug\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
$ \sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1320\sl260\fi-360 \tqr\tx1270\tx1320\tab \fs20\f0 6.\tab Create links to your source tree, using \b lndir\b0 , in your standard build directory:\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1720\sl234 \b\fs18\f1 Note: \b0 As of 2001-06-12, creating symlinks to the source tree creates 11,664 files in 1,510 folders, which is only 2.24 MB of data, but requires 45.5 MB of storage space on a file system using 4 KB allocation units.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1320\sl234 \f2 \sa0\par\fi0\sb0
Harold@MyWindowsHost ~/x-devel/build/debug\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
$ lndir ../../xc/\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
../../xc/config:\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
../../../xc/config/cf:\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
...\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
Harold@MyWindowsHost ~/x-devel/build/debug\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
$ \sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1320\sl260\fi-360 \tqr\tx1270\tx1320\tab \fs20\f0 7.\tab Run a debug build of the entire tree, which takes between 30 minutes and 5 hours, saving the output of the build commands to \fs18\f2 World.log\fs20\f0 :\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1720\sl234 \b\fs18\f1 Note: \b0 As of 2001-06-12, a debug build of the entire tree requires 566.5 MB of storage space on a file system using 4 KB allocation units; that is in addition to the 45.5 MB of previously generated symlinks.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1720\sl234 As a benchmark, a debug build runs for 71 minutes on a machine with a 1.2 GHz Atlhon, 256 MB DDR RAM, and a 7200 RPM ATA/100 HD. You may have noticed that the standard build time and the debug build time are identical.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1320\sl234 \f2 \sa0\par\fi0\sb0
Harold@MyWindowsHost ~/x-devel/build/debug\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
$ ./config/util/makeg.sh World > World.log 2>&1\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
Harold@MyWindowsHost ~/x-devel/build/debug\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
$ \sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb259\s2\sl449 {\*\bkmkstart ID_prog_45_compiling_45_install}{\*\bkmkend ID_prog_45_compiling_45_install}\b\fs34\f1 Installing a local build\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb173\li960\sl260 \b0\fs20\lang1033\f0 Installing a local build enables you to verify that a build of the entire source tree is operational. It is wise to verify the operation of full builds of the source tree from time to time, as full builds will occasionally be broken by changes that other developers are making to the XFree86 source code tree.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li960\sl260 Installing a local build on top of an existing build is not a good idea, as this can mask problems that occured during the build process, or it can cause problems that are unrelated to the build process; either situation is undesireable. It is generally a good idea to move your old installation out of the way before installing a local build, and these instructions will assume that you desire to do so. Follow the instructions below to install a local build:\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1320\sl260\fi-360 \tqr\tx1270\tx1320\tab \lang1024 1.\tab Move the \fs18\f2 /etc/X11\fs20\f0  directory to \fs18\f2 /etc/X11_\i build-prefix\i0 _\i date\i0 _\i time\i0\fs20\f0 :\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1320\sl234 \fs18\f2 \sa0\par\fi0\sb0
Harold@MyWindowsHost ~\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
$ mv /etc/X11 /etc/X11_\i build-prefix\i0 _\i date\i0 _\i time\i0 \sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
Harold@MyWindowsHost ~\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
$ \sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1320\sl260\fi-360 \tqr\tx1270\tx1320\tab \fs20\f0 2.\tab Move the \fs18\f2 /usr/X11R6\fs20\f0  diretory to \fs18\f2 /usr/X11R6_\i build-prefix\i0 _\i date\i0 _\i time\i0\fs20\f0 :\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1320\sl234 \fs18\f2 \sa0\par\fi0\sb0
Harold@MyWindowsHost ~\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
$ mv /usr/X11R6 /usr/X11R6_\i build-prefix\i0 _\i date\i0 _\i time\i0 \sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
Harold@MyWindowsHost ~\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
$ \sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1320\sl260\fi-360 \tqr\tx1270\tx1320\tab \fs20\f0 3.\tab Change the current directory to your desired XFree86 build directory:\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1320\sl234 \fs18\f2 \sa0\par\fi0\sb0
Harold@MyWindowsHost ~\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
$ cd ~/x-devel/build/\i build-prefix\i0 \sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
Harold@MyWindowsHost ~/x-devel/build/\i build-prefix\i0 \sa0\par\fi0\sb0
$ \sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1320\sl260\fi-360 \tqr\tx1270\tx1320\tab \fs20\f0 4.\tab Make the \b\f2 install\b0\f0  target, which installs binaries, fonts, libraries, and configuration files; in short, \b\f2 install\b0\f0  installs everything except the \b man\b0  pages:\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1720\sl234 \b\fs18\f1 Note: \b0 As of 2001-06-12, the \b\f2 install\b0\f1  target copies 5,074 files in 83 folders into \fs16\f2 /usr/X11R6\fs18\f1 , requiring 89.2 MB of storage space for a standard build or 177 MB of storage space for a debug build, and 276 files in 39 folders into \fs16\f2 /etc/X11\fs18\f1 , requiring 2.57 MB of storage space. All stated storage requirements are for a file system using 4 KB allocation units.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1720\sl234 As a benchmark, \b\f2 install\b0\f1  runs for 20 minutes on a machine with a 1.2 GHz Atlhon, 256 MB DDR RAM, and a 7200 RPM ATA/100 HD. Standard and debug installs both complete in the stated time.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1320\sl234 \f2 \sa0\par\fi0\sb0
Harold@MyWindowsHost ~/x-devel/build/\i build-prefix\i0 \sa0\par\fi0\sb0
$ make install > install.log 2>&1\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
Harold@MyWindowsHost ~/x-devel/build/\i build-prefix\i0 \sa0\par\fi0\sb0
$ \sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1320\sl260\fi-360 \tqr\tx1270\tx1320\tab \fs20\f0 5.\tab Make the \b\f2 install.man\b0\f0  target, which only installs the \b man\b0  pages:\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1720\sl234 \b\fs18\f1 Note: \b0 As of 2001-06-12, the \b\f2 install.man\b0\f1  target copies 541 files in 3 folders into \fs16\f2 /usr/X11R6/man\fs18\f1 , requiring 4.22 MB of storage space, and 544 files in 1 folder into \fs16\f2 /usr/X11R6/lib/X11/doc\fs18\f1 , requiring 4.76 MB of storage space. All stated storage requirements are for a file system using 4 KB allocation units.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1720\sl234 As a benchmark, \b\f2 install.man\b0\f1  runs for 2 minutes on a machine with a 1.2 GHz Atlhon, 256 MB DDR RAM, and a 7200 RPM ATA/100 HD.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1320\sl234 \f2 \sa0\par\fi0\sb0
Harold@MyWindowsHost ~/x-devel/build/\i build-prefix\i0 \sa0\par\fi0\sb0
$ make install.man > install.man.log 2>&1\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
Harold@MyWindowsHost ~/x-devel/build/\i build-prefix\i0 \sa0\par\fi0\sb0
$ \sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb259\s2\sl449 {\*\bkmkstart ID_prog_45_tree_45_update}{\*\bkmkend ID_prog_45_tree_45_update}\b\fs34\f1 Keeping your source code tree updated\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb173\li960\sl260 {\field{\*\fldinst   HYPERLINK  \\l ID_gloss_45_cvs}{\fldrslt \b0\i\fs20\lang1033\f0 CVS}}\b0\fs20\lang1033\f0  makes keeping your source code tree up to date easy. You may update your entire source code tree at once, or you can update individual directories or files, if you so choose.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb216\s3\sl374 {\*\bkmkstart ID_prog_45_tree_45_update_45_all}{\*\bkmkend ID_prog_45_tree_45_update_45_all}\b\fs28\lang1024\f1 Update the entire source code tree\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb144\li1320\sl260\fi-360 \tqr\tx1270\tx1320\tab \b0\fs20\f0 1.\tab Change the current directory to your XFree86 development directory:\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1320\sl234 \fs18\f2 \sa0\par\fi0\sb0
Harold@MyWindowsHost ~\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
$ cd x-devel\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
Harold@MyWindowsHost ~/x-devel\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
$ \sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1320\sl260\fi-360 \tqr\tx1270\tx1320\tab \fs20\f0 2.\tab Change the current directory to the root of the XFree86 source code tree, \fs18\f2 xc/\fs20\f0 :\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1320\sl234 \fs18\f2 \sa0\par\fi0\sb0
Harold@MyWindowsHost ~/x-devel\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
$ cd xc\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
Harold@MyWindowsHost ~/x-devel/xc\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
$ \sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1320\sl260\fi-360 \tqr\tx1270\tx1320\tab \fs20\f0 3.\tab To update your entire XFree86 source code tree, run the following command:\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1720\sl234 \b\fs18\f1 Tip: \b0 The \i\f2 -zn\i0\f1  parameter specifies the compression level to use, from 1 to 9, with 9 being maximum compression.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1720\sl234 The \i\f2 -d\i0\f1  parameter instructs \b cvs\b0  to rebuild the directory list, which causes new directories in the source code tree to be downloaded (new directories are skipped if you do not specify \i\f2 -d\i0\f1 ).\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1320\sl234 \f2 \sa0\par\fi0\sb0
Harold@MyWindowsHost ~/x-devel/xc\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
$ cvs -z4 update -d\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
Harold@MyWindowsHost ~/x-devel/xc\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
$ \sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb216\s3\sl374 {\*\bkmkstart ID_prog_45_source_45_update_45_individual}{\*\bkmkend ID_prog_45_source_45_update_45_individual}\b\fs28\f1 Update a single file or directory\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb144\li1320\sl260\fi-360 \tqr\tx1270\tx1320\tab \b0\fs20\f0 1.\tab Change the current directory to your XFree86 development directory:\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1320\sl234 \fs18\f2 \sa0\par\fi0\sb0
Harold@MyWindowsHost ~\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
$ cd x-devel\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
Harold@MyWindowsHost ~/x-devel\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
$ \sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1320\sl260\fi-360 \tqr\tx1270\tx1320\tab \fs20\f0 2.\tab Change the current directory to the directory that contains the file you wish to update, or change the current directory to the directory that you wish to update:\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1320\sl234 \fs18\f2 \sa0\par\fi0\sb0
Harold@MyWindowsHost ~/x-devel\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
$ cd xc/\i directory_to_update\i0 \sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
Harold@MyWindowsHost ~/x-devel/xc/\i directory_to_update\i0 \sa0\par\fi0\sb0
$ \sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1320\sl260\fi-360 \tqr\tx1270\tx1320\tab \fs20\f0 3.\tab To update a single file, or a set of specified files, run the following command:\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1720\sl234 \b\fs18\f1 Tip: \b0 The \i\f2 -zn\i0\f1  parameter specifies the compression level to use, from 1 to 9, with 9 being maximum compression.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1320\sl234 \f2 \sa0\par\fi0\sb0
Harold@MyWindowsHost ~/x-devel/xc/\i directory_to_update\i0 \sa0\par\fi0\sb0
$ cvs -z4 update \i filename_1\i0  [\i filename_2\i0  ...]\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
Harold@MyWindowsHost ~/x-devel/xc/\i directory_to_update\i0 \sa0\par\fi0\sb0
$ \sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1320\sl260\fi-360 \tqr\tx1270\tx1320\tab \fs20\f0 4.\tab To update a single directory, and its subdirectories, run the following command:\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1720\sl234 \b\fs18\f1 Note: \b0 The \i\f2 -zn\i0\f1  parameter specifies the compression level to use, from 1 to 9, with 9 being maximum compression.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1720\sl234 The \i\f2 -d\i0\f1  parameter instructs \b cvs\b0  to rebuild the directory list, which causes new directories in the source code tree to be downloaded (new directories are skipped if you do not specify \i\f2 -d\i0\f1 ).\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1320\sl234 \f2 \sa0\par\fi0\sb0
Harold@MyWindowsHost ~/x-devel/xc/\i directory_to_update\i0 \sa0\par\fi0\sb0
$ cvs -z4 update -d\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
Harold@MyWindowsHost ~/x-devel/xc/\i directory_to_update\i0 \sa0\par\fi0\sb0
$ \sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\hyphpar0\par\sect\sectd\plain\pgwsxn12240\pghsxn15840\marglsxn1440\margrsxn1440\margtsxn1440\margbsxn1920\headery0\footery0\pgndec\titlepg{\headerf\pard\sl-240\sb770\sa430\plain\tqc\tx4680\tqr\tx9360 {}\tab {}\tab {}\par}{\footerf\pard\sl-240\sb770\sa910\plain\tqc\tx4680\tqr\tx9360 {}\tab {}\tab {\i\fs20 \chpgn }\par}{\headerl\pard\sl-240\sb770\sa430\plain\tqc\tx4680\tqr\tx9360 {}\tab {}\tab {\i\fs20 Chapter 3. Documentation}\par}{\footerl\pard\sl-240\sb770\sa910\plain\tqc\tx4680\tqr\tx9360 {}\tab {}\tab {\i\fs20 \chpgn }\par}{\headerr\pard\sl-240\sb770\sa430\plain\tqc\tx4680\tqr\tx9360 {}\tab {}\tab {\i\fs20 Chapter 3. Documentation}\par}{\footerr\pard\sl-240\sb770\sa910\plain\tqc\tx4680\tqr\tx9360 {}\tab {}\tab {\i\fs20 \chpgn }\par}\pard\sb311\s1\sl539 {\*\bkmkstart ID_documentation}{\*\bkmkend ID_documentation}\b\fs41\f1 Chapter 3. Documentation\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb207\li960\sl260 \b0\fs20\lang1033\f0 Foo!\hyphpar0\par\sect\sectd\plain\pgwsxn12240\pghsxn15840\marglsxn1440\margrsxn1440\margtsxn1440\margbsxn1920\headery0\footery0\pgndec\titlepg{\headerf\pard\sl-240\sb770\sa430\plain\tqc\tx4680\tqr\tx9360 {}\tab {}\tab {}\par}{\footerf\pard\sl-240\sb770\sa910\plain\tqc\tx4680\tqr\tx9360 {}\tab {}\tab {\i\fs20 \chpgn }\par}{\headerl\pard\sl-240\sb770\sa430\plain\tqc\tx4680\tqr\tx9360 {}\tab {}\tab {\i\fs20 Chapter 4. Web Site Maintenance}\par}{\footerl\pard\sl-240\sb770\sa910\plain\tqc\tx4680\tqr\tx9360 {}\tab {}\tab {\i\fs20 \chpgn }\par}{\headerr\pard\sl-240\sb770\sa430\plain\tqc\tx4680\tqr\tx9360 {}\tab {}\tab {\i\fs20 Chapter 4. Web Site Maintenance}\par}{\footerr\pard\sl-240\sb770\sa910\plain\tqc\tx4680\tqr\tx9360 {}\tab {}\tab {\i\fs20 \chpgn }\par}\pard\sb311\s1\sl539 {\*\bkmkstart ID_website}{\*\bkmkend ID_website}\b\fs41\f1 Chapter 4. Web Site Maintenance\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb207\li960\sl260 \b0\fs20\lang1033\f0 Foo!\hyphpar0\par\sect\sectd\plain\pgwsxn12240\pghsxn15840\marglsxn1440\margrsxn1440\margtsxn1440\margbsxn1920\headery0\footery0\pgndec\titlepg{\headerf\pard\sl-240\sb770\sa430\plain\tqc\tx4680\tqr\tx9360 {}\tab {}\tab {}\par}{\footerf\pard\sl-240\sb770\sa910\plain\tqc\tx4680\tqr\tx9360 {}\tab {}\tab {\i\fs20 \chpgn }\par}{\headerl\pard\sl-240\sb770\sa430\plain\tqc\tx4680\tqr\tx9360 {}\tab {}\tab {\i\fs20 Bibliography}\par}{\footerl\pard\sl-240\sb770\sa910\plain\tqc\tx4680\tqr\tx9360 {}\tab {}\tab {\i\fs20 \chpgn }\par}{\headerr\pard\sl-240\sb770\sa430\plain\tqc\tx4680\tqr\tx9360 {}\tab {}\tab {\i\fs20 Bibliography}\par}{\footerr\pard\sl-240\sb770\sa910\plain\tqc\tx4680\tqr\tx9360 {}\tab {}\tab {\i\fs20 \chpgn }\par}\pard\sb311\s1\sl539 {\*\bkmkstart ID_biblio}{\*\bkmkend ID_biblio}\b\fs41\f1 Bibliography\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb259\s2\sl449 \fs34 Books\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb173\li1440\sl260\fi-480 \b0\fs20\f0 [ScheiflerGettys92]\~Robert W. Scheifler, James Gettys, Jim Flowers, and David Rosenthal, 1992, 1-55558-088-2, Butterworth-Heinemann, \i X Window System: The Complete Reference to Xlib, X Protocol, ICCCM, and XLFD\i0 .\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1440\sl260\fi-480 [Richter99]\~Jeffrey Richter, 1999, 1-57231-996-8, Microsoft\'ae Press, \i Programming Applications for Microsoft\'ae Windows\'ae: Mastering the critical building blocks of 32-bit and 64-bit Windows\'ae-based applications\i0 .\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1440\sl260\fi-480 [Petzold99]\~Charles Petzold, 1999, 1-57231-995-X, Microsoft\'ae Press, \i Programming Windows: The definitive guide to the Win32\'ae API\i0 .\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1440\sl260\fi-480 [McKay99]\~Everett N. McKay, 1999, 0-7356-0586-6, Microsoft\'ae Press, \i Developing User Interfaces for Microsoft\'ae Windows\'ae: Practical and effective methods for improving the user experience\i0 .\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1440\sl260\fi-480 [JonesOhlund99]\~Anthony Jones and Jim Ohlund, 1999, 0-7356-0560-2, Microsoft\'ae Press, \i Network Programming for Microsoft\'ae Windows\'ae: Clear, practical guide to Microsoft's networking APIs\i0 .\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1440\sl260\fi-480 [Yuan01]\~Feng Yuan, 2001, 0-13-086985-6, Prentice Hall PTR, \i Windows\'ae Graphics Programming: Win32\'ae GDI and DirectDraw\'ae\i0 .\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1440\sl260\fi-480 [CohenWoodring98]\~Aaron Cohen and Mike Woodring, 1998, 1-56592-296-4, O'Reilly & Associates, Inc., \i Win32\'ae Multithreaded Programming: Building Thread-Safe Applications\i0 .\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1440\sl260\fi-480 [CameronRosenblattRaymond96]\~Debra Cameron, Bill Rosenblatt, and Eric Raymond, 1996, 1991, 1-56592-152-6, O'Reilly & Associates, Inc., \i Learning GNU Emacs: UNIX Text Processing\i0 .\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1440\sl260\fi-480 [Lewine91]\~Edited by Dale Dougherty, Donald A. Lewine, 1991, 0-937175-73-0, O'Reilly & Associates, Inc., \i POSIX Programmer's Guide: Writing Portable UNIX Programs\i0 .\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1440\sl260\fi-480 [KernighanRitchie88]\~Brian W. Kernighan and Dennis M. Ritchie, 1998, 1978, 0-13-110370-9, Prentice Hall PTR, \i The C Programming Language: ANSI C\i0 .\hyphpar0\par\sect\sectd\plain\pgwsxn12240\pghsxn15840\marglsxn1440\margrsxn1440\margtsxn1440\margbsxn1920\headery0\footery0\pgndec\titlepg{\headerf\pard\sl-240\sb770\sa430\plain\tqc\tx4680\tqr\tx9360 {}\tab {}\tab {}\par}{\footerf\pard\sl-240\sb770\sa910\plain\tqc\tx4680\tqr\tx9360 {}\tab {}\tab {\i\fs20 \chpgn }\par}{\headerl\pard\sl-240\sb770\sa430\plain\tqc\tx4680\tqr\tx9360 {}\tab {}\tab {\i\fs20 Glossary}\par}{\footerl\pard\sl-240\sb770\sa910\plain\tqc\tx4680\tqr\tx9360 {}\tab {}\tab {\i\fs20 \chpgn }\par}{\headerr\pard\sl-240\sb770\sa430\plain\tqc\tx4680\tqr\tx9360 {}\tab {}\tab {\i\fs20 Glossary}\par}{\footerr\pard\sl-240\sb770\sa910\plain\tqc\tx4680\tqr\tx9360 {}\tab {}\tab {\i\fs20 \chpgn }\par}\pard\sb311\s1\sl539 {\*\bkmkstart ID_glossary}{\*\bkmkend ID_glossary}\b\fs41\f1 Glossary\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb259\s2\sl449 \fs34 C\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb173\s5\li960\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_gloss_45_cvs}{\*\bkmkend ID_gloss_45_cvs}\fs20 Concurrent Versions System\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1360\sl260 \b0\lang1033\f0 CVS is an open source version control system used by the majority of open source projects. More information can be found at the CVS project homepage (http://www.cvshome.org).\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb259\s2\sl449 \b\fs34\lang1024\f1 F\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb173\s5\li960\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_gloss_45_firewall}{\*\bkmkend ID_gloss_45_firewall}\fs20 firewall\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1360\sl260 \b0\lang1033\f0 Firewall software attempts to protect an internal network from intrusions originating from an external network.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb259\s2\sl449 \b\fs34\lang1024\f1 P\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb173\s5\li960\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_gloss_45_pserver}{\*\bkmkend ID_gloss_45_pserver}\fs20 pserver\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1360\sl260 \b0\lang1033\f0 CVS pserver, short for \'93password server\'94, is one of the user authentication methods supported by CVS. CVS pserver is not secure, as passwords are transmitted and stored as plain text. However, CVS pserver is desireable for read-only anonymous access to open source CVS trees, as CVS pserver is by far the easiest method to use.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb259\s2\sl449 \b\fs34\lang1024\f1 V\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb173\s5\li960\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_gloss_45_vpn}{\*\bkmkend ID_gloss_45_vpn}\fs20 Virtual Private Network\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1360\sl260 \b0\lang1033\f0 Virtual Private Networks are encrypted tunnels through which private data can be safely transmitted over a private network (e.g. the Internet).\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb259\s2\sl449 \b\fs34\lang1024\f1 X\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb173\s5\li960\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_gloss_45_xdm}{\*\bkmkend ID_gloss_45_xdm}\fs20 X Display Manager\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1360\sl260 \b0\lang1033\f0 An X Display Manager presents a graphical login screen to X users. Often an XDM will allow the user to select a desktop environment or window manager to be for their login session. Some X Display Managers are xdm, gdm (Gnome Display Manager), and kdm (KDE Display Manager).\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb150\s5\li960\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_gloss_45_xdmcp}{\*\bkmkend ID_gloss_45_xdmcp}\b\lang1024\f1 X Display Manager Control Protocol\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1360\sl260 \b0\lang1033\f0 XDMCP allows XDM to process logins for users remote to the machine that XDM is running on; login sessions will be run on the machine running XDM. For example, at a university you may use XDMCP to login to an X session running on an engineering department computer from your dorm room.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1360\sl260 \i\lang1024 See Also: {\field{\*\fldinst   HYPERLINK  \\l ID_gloss_45_xdm}{\fldrslt \i0 X Display Manager}}\i0 .\hyphpar0\par\sect\sectd\plain\pgwsxn12240\pghsxn15840\marglsxn1440\margrsxn1440\margtsxn1440\margbsxn1920\headery0\footery0\pgndec\titlepg{\headerf\pard\sl-240\sb770\sa430\plain\tqc\tx4680\tqr\tx9360 {}\tab {}\tab {}\par}{\footerf\pard\sl-240\sb770\sa910\plain\tqc\tx4680\tqr\tx9360 {}\tab {}\tab {\i\fs20 \chpgn }\par}{\headerl\pard\sl-240\sb770\sa430\plain\tqc\tx4680\tqr\tx9360 {}\tab {}\tab {\i\fs20 Appendix A. GNU Free Documentation License}\par}{\footerl\pard\sl-240\sb770\sa910\plain\tqc\tx4680\tqr\tx9360 {}\tab {}\tab {\i\fs20 \chpgn }\par}{\headerr\pard\sl-240\sb770\sa430\plain\tqc\tx4680\tqr\tx9360 {}\tab {}\tab {\i\fs20 Appendix A. GNU Free Documentation License}\par}{\footerr\pard\sl-240\sb770\sa910\plain\tqc\tx4680\tqr\tx9360 {}\tab {}\tab {\i\fs20 \chpgn }\par}\pard\sb311\s1\sl539 {\*\bkmkstart ID_gfdl}{\*\bkmkend ID_gfdl}\b\fs41\f1 Appendix A. GNU Free Documentation License\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb207\li960\sl260 \b0\fs20\lang1033\f0 Version 1.1, March 2000\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1160\ri200\sl234 \fs18 Copyright (C) 2000 Free Software Foundation, Inc. 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111-1307 USA Everyone is permitted to copy and distribute verbatim copies of this license document, but changing it is not allowed.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb259\s2\sl449 {\*\bkmkstart ID_gfdl_45_preamble}{\*\bkmkend ID_gfdl_45_preamble}\b\fs34\lang1024\f1 0. PREAMBLE\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb173\li960\sl260 \b0\fs20\lang1033\f0 The purpose of this License is to make a manual, textbook, or other written document "free" in the sense of freedom: to assure everyone the effective freedom to copy and redistribute it, with or without modifying it, either commercially or noncommercially. Secondarily, this License preserves for the author and publisher a way to get credit for their work, while not being considered responsible for modifications made by others.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li960\sl260 This License is a kind of "copyleft", which means that derivative works of the document must themselves be free in the same sense. It complements the GNU General Public License, which is a copyleft license designed for free software.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li960\sl260 We have designed this License in order to use it for manuals for free software, because free software needs free documentation: a free program should come with manuals providing the same freedoms that the software does. But this License is not limited to software manuals; it can be used for any textual work, regardless of subject matter or whether it is published as a printed book. We recommend this License principally for works whose purpose is instruction or reference.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb259\s2\sl449 {\*\bkmkstart ID_gfdl_45_applicability_45_and_45_definitions}{\*\bkmkend ID_gfdl_45_applicability_45_and_45_definitions}\b\fs34\lang1024\f1 1. APPLICABILITY AND DEFINITIONS\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb173\li960\sl260 \b0\fs20\lang1033\f0 This License applies to any manual or other work that contains a notice placed by the copyright holder saying it can be distributed under the terms of this License. The "Document", below, refers to any such manual or work. Any member of the public is a licensee, and is addressed as "you".\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li960\sl260 A "Modified Version" of the Document means any work containing the Document or a portion of it, either copied verbatim, or with modifications and/or translated into another language.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li960\sl260 A "Secondary Section" is a named appendix or a front-matter section of the Document that deals exclusively with the relationship of the publishers or authors of the Document to the Document's overall subject (or to related matters) and contains nothing that could fall directly within that overall subject. (For example, if the Document is in part a textbook of mathematics, a Secondary Section may not explain any mathematics.) The relationship could be a matter of historical connection with the subject or with related matters, or of legal, commercial, philosophical, ethical or political position regarding them.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li960\sl260 The "Invariant Sections" are certain Secondary Sections whose titles are designated, as being those of Invariant Sections, in the notice that says that the Document is released under this License.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li960\sl260 The "Cover Texts" are certain short passages of text that are listed, as Front-Cover Texts or Back-Cover Texts, in the notice that says that the Document is released under this License.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li960\sl260 A "Transparent" copy of the Document means a machine-readable copy, represented in a format whose specification is available to the general public, whose contents can be viewed and edited directly and straightforwardly with generic text editors or (for images composed of pixels) generic paint programs or (for drawings) some widely available drawing editor, and that is suitable for input to text formatters or for automatic translation to a variety of formats suitable for input to text formatters. A copy made in an otherwise Transparent file format whose markup has been designed to thwart or discourage subsequent modification by readers is not Transparent. A copy that is not "Transparent" is called "Opaque".\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li960\sl260 Examples of suitable formats for Transparent copies include plain ASCII without markup, Texinfo input format, LaTeX input format, SGML or XML using a publicly available DTD, and standard-conforming simple HTML designed for human modification. Opaque formats include PostScript, PDF, proprietary formats that can be read and edited only by proprietary word processors, SGML or XML for which the DTD and/or processing tools are not generally available, and the machine-generated HTML produced by some word processors for output purposes only.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li960\sl260 The "Title Page" means, for a printed book, the title page itself, plus such following pages as are needed to hold, legibly, the material this License requires to appear in the title page. For works in formats which do not have any title page as such, "Title Page" means the text near the most prominent appearance of the work's title, preceding the beginning of the body of the text.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb259\s2\sl449 {\*\bkmkstart ID_gfdl_45_verbation_45_copying}{\*\bkmkend ID_gfdl_45_verbation_45_copying}\b\fs34\lang1024\f1 2. VERBATIM COPYING\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb173\li960\sl260 \b0\fs20\lang1033\f0 You may copy and distribute the Document in any medium, either commercially or noncommercially, provided that this License, the copyright notices, and the license notice saying this License applies to the Document are reproduced in all copies, and that you add no other conditions whatsoever to those of this License. You may not use technical measures to obstruct or control the reading or further copying of the copies you make or distribute. However, you may accept compensation in exchange for copies. If you distribute a large enough number of copies you must also follow the conditions in section 3.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li960\sl260 You may also lend copies, under the same conditions stated above, and you may publicly display copies.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb259\s2\sl449 {\*\bkmkstart ID_gfdl_45_copying_45_in_45_quantity}{\*\bkmkend ID_gfdl_45_copying_45_in_45_quantity}\b\fs34\lang1024\f1 3. COPYING IN QUANTITY\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb173\li960\sl260 \b0\fs20\lang1033\f0 If you publish printed copies of the Document numbering more than 100, and the Document's license notice requires Cover Texts, you must enclose the copies in covers that carry, clearly and legibly, all these Cover Texts: Front-Cover Texts on the front cover, and Back-Cover Texts on the back cover. Both covers must also clearly and legibly identify you as the publisher of these copies. The front cover must present the full title with all words of the title equally prominent and visible. You may add other material on the covers in addition. Copying with changes limited to the covers, as long as they preserve the title of the Document and satisfy these conditions, can be treated as verbatim copying in other respects.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li960\sl260 If the required texts for either cover are too voluminous to fit legibly, you should put the first ones listed (as many as fit reasonably) on the actual cover, and continue the rest onto adjacent pages.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li960\sl260 If you publish or distribute Opaque copies of the Document numbering more than 100, you must either include a machine-readable Transparent copy along with each Opaque copy, or state in or with each Opaque copy a publicly-accessible computer-network location containing a complete Transparent copy of the Document, free of added material, which the general network-using public has access to download anonymously at no charge using public-standard network protocols. If you use the latter option, you must take reasonably prudent steps, when you begin distribution of Opaque copies in quantity, to ensure that this Transparent copy will remain thus accessible at the stated location until at least one year after the last time you distribute an Opaque copy (directly or through your agents or retailers) of that edition to the public.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li960\sl260 It is requested, but not required, that you contact the authors of the Document well before redistributing any large number of copies, to give them a chance to provide you with an updated version of the Document.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb259\s2\sl449 {\*\bkmkstart ID_gfdl_45_modifications}{\*\bkmkend ID_gfdl_45_modifications}\b\fs34\lang1024\f1 4. MODIFICATIONS\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb173\li960\sl260 \b0\fs20\lang1033\f0 You may copy and distribute a Modified Version of the Document under the conditions of sections 2 and 3 above, provided that you release the Modified Version under precisely this License, with the Modified Version filling the role of the Document, thus licensing distribution and modification of the Modified Version to whoever possesses a copy of it. In addition, you must do these things in the Modified Version:\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1320\sl260\fi-360 \tqr\tx1270\tx1320\tab \lang1024 A.\tab Use in the Title Page (and on the covers, if any) a title distinct from that of the Document, and from those of previous versions (which should, if there were any, be listed in the History section of the Document). You may use the same title as a previous version if the original publisher of that version gives permission.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1320\sl260\fi-360 \tqr\tx1270\tx1320\tab B.\tab List on the Title Page, as authors, one or more persons or entities responsible for authorship of the modifications in the Modified Version, together with at least five of the principal authors of the Document (all of its principal authors, if it has less than five).\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1320\sl260\fi-360 \tqr\tx1270\tx1320\tab C.\tab State on the Title page the name of the publisher of the Modified Version, as the publisher.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1320\sl260\fi-360 \tqr\tx1270\tx1320\tab D.\tab Preserve all the copyright notices of the Document.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1320\sl260\fi-360 \tqr\tx1270\tx1320\tab E.\tab Add an appropriate copyright notice for your modifications adjacent to the other copyright notices.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1320\sl260\fi-360 \tqr\tx1270\tx1320\tab F.\tab Include, immediately after the copyright notices, a license notice giving the public permission to use the Modified Version under the terms of this License, in the form shown in the Addendum below.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1320\sl260\fi-360 \tqr\tx1270\tx1320\tab G.\tab Preserve in that license notice the full lists of Invariant Sections and required Cover Texts given in the Document's license notice.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1320\sl260\fi-360 \tqr\tx1270\tx1320\tab H.\tab Include an unaltered copy of this License.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1320\sl260\fi-360 \tqr\tx1270\tx1320\tab I.\tab Preserve the section entitled "History", and its title, and add to it an item stating at least the title, year, new authors, and publisher of the Modified Version as given on the Title Page. If there is no section entitled "History" in the Document, create one stating the title, year, authors, and publisher of the Document as given on its Title Page, then add an item describing the Modified Version as stated in the previous sentence.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1320\sl260\fi-360 \tqr\tx1270\tx1320\tab J.\tab Preserve the network location, if any, given in the Document for public access to a Transparent copy of the Document, and likewise the network locations given in the Document for previous versions it was based on. These may be placed in the "History" section. You may omit a network location for a work that was published at least four years before the Document itself, or if the original publisher of the version it refers to gives permission.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1320\sl260\fi-360 \tqr\tx1270\tx1320\tab K.\tab In any section entitled "Acknowledgements" or "Dedications", preserve the section's title, and preserve in the section all the substance and tone of each of the contributor acknowledgements and/or dedications given therein.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1320\sl260\fi-360 \tqr\tx1270\tx1320\tab L.\tab Preserve all the Invariant Sections of the Document, unaltered in their text and in their titles. Section numbers or the equivalent are not considered part of the section titles.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1320\sl260\fi-360 \tqr\tx1270\tx1320\tab M.\tab Delete any section entitled "Endorsements". Such a section may not be included in the Modified Version.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1320\sl260\fi-360 \tqr\tx1270\tx1320\tab N.\tab Do not retitle any existing section as "Endorsements" or to conflict in title with any Invariant Section.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li960\sl260 \lang1033 If the Modified Version includes new front-matter sections or appendices that qualify as Secondary Sections and contain no material copied from the Document, you may at your option designate some or all of these sections as invariant. To do this, add their titles to the list of Invariant Sections in the Modified Version's license notice. These titles must be distinct from any other section titles.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li960\sl260 You may add a section entitled "Endorsements", provided it contains nothing but endorsements of your Modified Version by various parties--for example, statements of peer review or that the text has been approved by an organization as the authoritative definition of a standard.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li960\sl260 You may add a passage of up to five words as a Front-Cover Text, and a passage of up to 25 words as a Back-Cover Text, to the end of the list of Cover Texts in the Modified Version. Only one passage of Front-Cover Text and one of Back-Cover Text may be added by (or through arrangements made by) any one entity. If the Document already includes a cover text for the same cover, previously added by you or by arrangement made by the same entity you are acting on behalf of, you may not add another; but you may replace the old one, on explicit permission from the previous publisher that added the old one.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li960\sl260 The author(s) and publisher(s) of the Document do not by this License give permission to use their names for publicity for or to assert or imply endorsement of any Modified Version.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb259\s2\sl449 {\*\bkmkstart ID_gfdl_45_combining_45_documents}{\*\bkmkend ID_gfdl_45_combining_45_documents}\b\fs34\lang1024\f1 5. COMBINING DOCUMENTS\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb173\li960\sl260 \b0\fs20\lang1033\f0 You may combine the Document with other documents released under this License, under the terms defined in section 4 above for modified versions, provided that you include in the combination all of the Invariant Sections of all of the original documents, unmodified, and list them all as Invariant Sections of your combined work in its license notice.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li960\sl260 The combined work need only contain one copy of this License, and multiple identical Invariant Sections may be replaced with a single copy. If there are multiple Invariant Sections with the same name but different contents, make the title of each such section unique by adding at the end of it, in parentheses, the name of the original author or publisher of that section if known, or else a unique number. Make the same adjustment to the section titles in the list of Invariant Sections in the license notice of the combined work.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li960\sl260 In the combination, you must combine any sections entitled "History" in the various original documents, forming one section entitled "History"; likewise combine any sections entitled "Acknowledgements", and any sections entitled "Dedications". You must delete all sections entitled "Endorsements."\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb259\s2\sl449 {\*\bkmkstart ID_gfdl_45_collections_45_of_45_documents}{\*\bkmkend ID_gfdl_45_collections_45_of_45_documents}\b\fs34\lang1024\f1 6. COLLECTIONS OF DOCUMENTS\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb173\li960\sl260 \b0\fs20\lang1033\f0 You may make a collection consisting of the Document and other documents released under this License, and replace the individual copies of this License in the various documents with a single copy that is included in the collection, provided that you follow the rules of this License for verbatim copying of each of the documents in all other respects.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li960\sl260 You may extract a single document from such a collection, and distribute it individually under this License, provided you insert a copy of this License into the extracted document, and follow this License in all other respects regarding verbatim copying of that document.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb259\s2\sl449 {\*\bkmkstart ID_gfdl_45_aggregation_45_with_45_independent_45_works}{\*\bkmkend ID_gfdl_45_aggregation_45_with_45_independent_45_works}\b\fs34\lang1024\f1 7. AGGREGATION WITH INDEPENDENT WORKS\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb173\li960\sl260 \b0\fs20\lang1033\f0 A compilation of the Document or its derivatives with other separate and independent documents or works, in or on a volume of a storage or distribution medium, does not as a whole count as a Modified Version of the Document, provided no compilation copyright is claimed for the compilation. Such a compilation is called an "aggregate", and this License does not apply to the other self-contained works thus compiled with the Document, on account of their being thus compiled, if they are not themselves derivative works of the Document.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li960\sl260 If the Cover Text requirement of section 3 is applicable to these copies of the Document, then if the Document is less than one quarter of the entire aggregate, the Document's Cover Texts may be placed on covers that surround only the Document within the aggregate. Otherwise they must appear on covers around the whole aggregate.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb259\s2\sl449 {\*\bkmkstart ID_gfdl_45_translation}{\*\bkmkend ID_gfdl_45_translation}\b\fs34\lang1024\f1 8. TRANSLATION\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb173\li960\sl260 \b0\fs20\lang1033\f0 Translation is considered a kind of modification, so you may distribute translations of the Document under the terms of section 4. Replacing Invariant Sections with translations requires special permission from their copyright holders, but you may include translations of some or all Invariant Sections in addition to the original versions of these Invariant Sections. You may include a translation of this License provided that you also include the original English version of this License. In case of a disagreement between the translation and the original English version of this License, the original English version will prevail.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb259\s2\sl449 {\*\bkmkstart ID_gfdl_45_termination}{\*\bkmkend ID_gfdl_45_termination}\b\fs34\lang1024\f1 9. TERMINATION\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb173\li960\sl260 \b0\fs20\lang1033\f0 You may not copy, modify, sublicense, or distribute the Document except as expressly provided for under this License. Any other attempt to copy, modify, sublicense or distribute the Document is void, and will automatically terminate your rights under this License. However, parties who have received copies, or rights, from you under this License will not have their licenses terminated so long as such parties remain in full compliance.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb259\s2\sl449 {\*\bkmkstart ID_gfdl_45_future_45_revisions_45_of_45_this_45_license}{\*\bkmkend ID_gfdl_45_future_45_revisions_45_of_45_this_45_license}\b\fs34\lang1024\f1 10. FUTURE REVISIONS OF THIS LICENSE\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb173\li960\sl260 \b0\fs20\lang1033\f0 The Free Software Foundation may publish new, revised versions of the GNU Free Documentation License from time to time. Such new versions will be similar in spirit to the present version, but may differ in detail to address new problems or concerns. See http://www.gnu.org/copyleft/.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li960\sl260 Each version of the License is given a distinguishing version number. If the Document specifies that a particular numbered version of this License "or any later version" applies to it, you have the option of following the terms and conditions either of that specified version or of any later version that has been published (not as a draft) by the Free Software Foundation. If the Document does not specify a version number of this License, you may choose any version ever published (not as a draft) by the Free Software Foundation.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb259\s2\sl449 {\*\bkmkstart ID_gfdl_45_using_45_for_45_your_45_documents}{\*\bkmkend ID_gfdl_45_using_45_for_45_your_45_documents}\b\fs34\lang1024\f1 How to use this License for your documents\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb173\li960\sl260 \b0\fs20\lang1033\f0 To use this License in a document you have written, include a copy of the License in the document and put the following copyright and license notices just after the title page:\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1160\ri200\sl234 \fs18  Copyright (c) YEAR YOUR NAME. Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.1 or any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with the Invariant Sections being LIST THEIR TITLES, with the Front-Cover Texts being LIST, and with the Back-Cover Texts being LIST. A copy of the license is included in the section entitled "GNU Free Documentation License". \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li960\sl260 \fs20 If you have no Invariant Sections, write "with no Invariant Sections" instead of saying which ones are invariant. If you have no Front-Cover Texts, write "no Front-Cover Texts" instead of "Front-Cover Texts being LIST"; likewise for Back-Cover Texts.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li960\sl260 If your document contains nontrivial examples of program code, we recommend releasing these examples in parallel under your choice of free software license, such as the GNU General Public License, to permit their use in free software.\hyphpar0\par}
